

--- PAGE 1 ---

 Electronic copy available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2312432 
 
 
 
Quality Minus Junk 
 
 
Clifford S. Asness, Andrea Frazzini , and Lasse H. Pedersen * 
 
This draft: October 9, 2013 
 
 
Abstract 
We define a quality security as one that has characteristics that , all-else-equal, an investor should be 
willing to pay a higher price for : stocks that are safe, profitable, growing, and well managed. High-
quality stocks do have higher prices on average, but  not by a very large margin . Perhaps because of 
this puzzlingly modest impact of quality on price, high-quality stocks have high risk-adjusted returns. 
Indeed, a quality-minus-junk (QMJ) factor that goes long high -quality stocks and shorts low -quality 
stocks earns significant risk-adjusted returns in the U.S. and globally across 24 countries. The price of 
quality – i.e., how much investors pay extra for higher quality stocks – varies over time, reaching a 
low during the internet bubble . Further, a low price of quality predicts a high f uture return of QMJ. 
Finally, controlling for quality resurrects the otherwise moribund size effect.  
                                                 
 
* Andrea Frazzini is at AQR Capital Management, Two Greenwich Plaza, Greenwich, CT 06830, e-mail: 
andrea.frazzini@aqr.com; web: http://www.econ.yale.edu/~af227/. Cliff Asness is at AQR Capital Management, Two 
Greenwich Plaza, Greenwich, CT 06830. Lasse H. Pedersen is at New York University, Copenhagen Business School, AQR 
Capital Manag ement, CEPR and NBER, 44 West Fourth Street, NY 10012 -1126; e -mail: lpederse@stern.nyu.edu; web: 
http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~lpederse/. We thank Antti Ilmanen, Ronen Israel, Johnny Kang, John Liew, Toby Moskowitz, 
Per Olsson, and Scott Richardson  for helpful comments and discussions  as well as participants in the SIFR Institute of 
Financial Research Conference on Re-Thinking Beta.  

--- PAGE 2 ---

 Electronic copy available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2312432 
Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 2 
 
When did our field stop being “asset pricing” and become “asset expected  
returning?” … Market-to-book ratios should be our left -hand variable, the thing we 
are trying to explain, not a sorting characteristic for expected returns.  
– Cochrane, Presidential Address, American Finance Association, 2011 
 
The asset pricing  literature in financial economics  studies the drivers of returns, but , 
while linked, the economic consequences of market efficiency ultimately depend on prices, 
not returns, as emphasized by Summers (1986)  and Cochrane (2011). D o the highest quality 
firms command the highest price so that these firms can finance their operations and invest?  
To address this question, w e define quality as characteristics that investors should be 
willing to pay a higher price for, everything else equal.  We show that quality is priced, that 
is, investors pay more for firms with higher quality characteristics. However, the explanatory 
power of quality for price s is limited, presenting a puzzle for asset pricing. This puzzle for 
asset prices is analogous to the famous puzzle of the low R2 of asset returns presented by 
Roll (1984, 1988). Consistent with the limited pricing of quality, high -quality stocks have 
historically delivered high risk -adjusted returns while low -quality junk stocks delivered 
negative risk-adjusted returns. Hence, a quality-minus-junk (QMJ) portfolio that invests long 
quality stocks and short s junk stocks produces high risk -adjusted returns . Further, we find 
that the price of quality  (the marginal amount extra investors pay for higher quality 
characteristics) has varied over time as the market has sometimes put a larger or smaller price 
premium on quality stocks vs. junk stocks. For instance, the price of quality was particularly 
low during the internet bubble. Since prices and returns are linked, the price of  quality 
predicts the future return to the QMJ factor. Lastly, we show that QMJ has broader asset 
pricing implications, including resurrecting the size effect.  
To apply the general definit ion of quality, we must identify stock  characteristics that 
should command a higher price. Gordon’s growth model presents a simple framework to get 

--- PAGE 3 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 3 
 
intuition for the natural quality characteristics. Indeed, rewriting Gordon’s growth model, we 
can express a stock’s price-to-book value (P/B) as follows:1 
 
                                                         
                            
                                                                         
 
We scale prices by book values to make them more stationary over time and in the cross 
section. The four right-hand side variables form the basi s for our definition of quality.  These 
variables are intuitive and extend beyond the Gordon model in terms of their relevance for 
stock prices.2 For each quality characteristic, we consider several measures in order to have a 
robust analysis and ensure that the explanatory power of quality on price (or the lack thereof) 
is not driven by a specific measurement choice:  
 
i. Profitability. Profitability is the profits per unit of book value . All else equal, more 
profitable companies should command a higher stock price . We measure profits in 
several ways, including gross profits, margins, earnings, accruals and cash flows, and 
focus on each stock’s average rank across these metrics. 
ii. Growth. Investors should also pay a higher price for stocks with growing pro fits. We 
measure growth as the prior five-year growth in each of our profitability measures. 
iii. Safety. Investors should also pay, all -else-equal, a higher price for a stock with a 
lower required return, that is, a safer stock. What should enter into required return is 
still a very contentious part of the literature. We do not attempt to resolve those issues 
here, rather we take a simple common sense approach. We consider both return-based 
measure of safety (e.g., ma rket beta and volatility) and fundamental-based measures 
                                                 
 
1 We rewrite the Gordon model simply as 
 
  
 
 
        
        -              
                          
        -              .   
2 Equation (1)  is a special case of the general present -value relation. We use the Gordon model to simplify 
notation but the same intuition applies to the general present-value relation.  

--- PAGE 4 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 4 
 
of safety (e.g., stocks with low leverage, low volatility of profitability, and low credit 
risk).  
iv. Payout. The payout ratio is the fraction of profits paid out to shareholders. This 
characteristic is  determined by management and can be seen as a measure of 
shareholder friendliness. Management’s agency problems are diminished if free cash 
flows are reduced through higher dividends ( Jensen (1986)). We also consider both 
net payout as well as issuance (d ilution). Payout is an example of how each of these 
measures is about their marginal effect, all else being equal.  Indeed, if a higher 
payout is associated with a lower future profitability or growth, then this should not 
command a higher price , but a higher payout should be positive when we hold all 
other factors constant. 
 
For the market to rationally put a price on these quality characteristics, they need to 
be measured in advance and predict future quality characteristics , that is, they need to be 
persistent. We show that this is indeed the case; profitable, growing, safe, and high-payout 
stocks continue on average to display these characteristics over the following five or ten 
years.  
We test the pricing of quality over a  long sample of U.S. stocks from 1956 to 2012 
and a broad sample of stocks from 24 developed markets from 1986 to 2012. To evaluate the 
pricing of quality, we first run cross -sectional regressions of price -to-book on each stock’s 
overall quality score. Both in the long and broad sample, we find that higher quality is 
significantly associated with higher price s. However, the explanatory power of quality on 
price is limited as the average R2 is only 12% in the long sample and 6% in the broad sample. 
When we also control for the firm’s size and past 12 -month stock returns, the cross-sectional 
R2 increases to, respectively, 31% and 26 %, still leaving unexplained a large amount of the 
cross sectional distribution of prices . Interestingly, larger firms are more  expensive 
controlling for quality, the analogue of the size effect on returns (Banz (1981)).  
We also regress the price -to-book on the four quality measures separately and in a 
joint regression. Having all four quality measures separately modestly increases the R2. 
Further, while profitability and growth are unambiguously associated with higher prices, 

--- PAGE 5 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 5 
 
safety is mixed and even negative controlling for size and past returns, and stocks with high 
payout appear to command a lower, not a higher, price. 
There could be several potential reasons for  the limited explanatory power of  quality 
on prices: ( a) market prices fail to fully refl ect these characteristics  for reasons linked to 
behavioral finance or constraints (e.g., an inability to lever) , (b) market prices are based on 
superior quality characteristics than the one s we consider, and (c) the quality characteristics 
are correlated to risk factors not captur ed in our risk adjustments  (so while the quality 
measure alone might command a higher P/B, the risk increase we fail to capture could imply 
an offsetting lower one).  
To examine these potential explanations, we first consider the return s of high - vs. 
low-quality stocks. We sort stocks into ten deciles based on their quality score and consider 
the value -weighted return in each portfolio. We find that high -quality stocks have 
significantly higher raw returns than junk stocks. The difference in their risk-adjusted returns 
(i.e., 4-factor alphas) is even larger since high-quality stocks have relatively lower market, 
size, value and momentum exposures than junk stocks.  
We then construct a QMJ factor with a methodology that follows that of Fama and 
French (1993) and Asness and Frazzini (2013 ). The factor is long the top 30% high -quality 
stocks and short the bottom 30% junk stocks within the universe of large stocks and similarly 
within the universe of small stocks.3 This QMJ factor (as well as its large-cap only and small-
cap only components) delivers positive returns in 23 out of 24 countries that we study and  
highly significant risk -adjusted returns in our long and broad sample . QMJ portfolios have 
negative market, value, and size  exposures, positive alpha, rela tively small residual risk and 
QMJ returns are high during market downturns , presenting a challenge to risk -based 
explanations relying on covariance with market crises . Rather than exhibiting crash risk, if 
anything QMJ exhibits  a mild positive convexity, that is, it benefits from flight to quality  
during crises. 
                                                 
 
3 As noted by Fama and French (2013) we can chose to orthogonalize each factor (size, value, momentum, 
quality) to each other in a potential nightmare of choices and dimensionality, or  to to construct our factors more 
simply allowing some correlation among them.  We choose the latter. 

--- PAGE 6 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 6 
 
It is interesting to consider how the pricing of quality varies over time: Each month, 
we cross-sectionally regress price -to-book on quality and consider the time series of these 
cross-sectional regression coefficients that reflect the pricing of quality at each time. 
Consistent with conventional wisdom, the price of quality reached its lowest level in 
February 2000 during the height of the internet bubble. The price of quality was also 
relatively low leading into the 1987 crash and leading into the Global Financial Crisis of 
2007-2009. Following each of these three eye -opening events, the price of quality increased, 
reaching highs in late 1990 (first gulf war), in late 2002  (after the Enr on and WorldCom 
scandals), and in early 2009 (during the height of the banking crisis). Prices and returns are 
naturally connected, and we show that the price of quality negatively predicts the future 
return on QMJ; that is, a higher price of quality is na turally associated with a lower return on 
buying high-quality stocks. 
We note that the QMJ strategy of buying profitable, safe, growing, high payout stocks 
while shorting unprofitable, risky, shrinking , low-yielding stocks is very different from the 
standard value strategy HML  (in fact the two are negatively correlated). QMJ is buying and 
selling based on quality characteristics irrespective of stock prices , while HML is buying 
based on stock prices irrespective of quality. Naturally, the two concepts can be combined, 
which we call quality at a reasonable price  (QARP). This concept goes back at least to 
Graham and Dodd (1934) who stated that “ investment must always the price as well as the 
quality of the security.” Naturally, value investing is improved by QARP, consistent with the 
finding in the accounting literature that accounting information can improve value investing 
(e.g., Frankel and Lee (1998) and Piotroski (2000)). 
Last, we show what happens when we switch things aro und and put QMJ on the 
right-hand-side to help explain other factors . We find that controlling for quality makes the 
value effect stronger , just like QARP is stronger than HML alone .  This makes sense as 
quality is positively associated with future returns, and negatively correlated with value.   
Further, controlling for quality has a surprisingly significant effect on the size factor.  
We show that including quality on the right -hand-side resurrects the formerly moribund size 
effect. Indeed, the small-minus-big (SMB) factor is highly negatively correlated to the strong 
quality factor since small firms are junky and large firms are high quality, on average. While 
SMB has an insignificant alpha of 13 basis points per month controlling for the other 

--- PAGE 7 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 7 
 
standard factors, this increases to a highly significant alpha of 64 basis points ( t-statistic of 
6.39). In other words, when comparing stocks of similar quality, smaller stocks significantly 
outperform larger ones on average, which corresponds to our finding in  price space that 
larger firms are more expensive.     
Our paper is related to a large literature. A number of papers study return -based 
anomalies. It has been documented that stocks with high profitability outperform (Novy -
Marx (2013)), stocks that repurchase tend to do well (Baker and Wurgler (2002) , Pontiff and 
Woodgate (2008), McLean, Pontiff, and Watanabe (2009) ), low beta is associated with high 
alpha for stocks, bonds, credit, and futures ( Black, Jensen, and Scholes (1972) , Frazzini and 
Pedersen (2013)), firms with low leverage have high alpha ( George and Hwang (2010), 
Penman, Richardson, and Tuna (2007) ), firms with high credit risk tend to under -perform 
(Altman (1968), Ohlson (1980), Campbell, Hilscher, and Szilagyi (2008)), growing firms  
outperform firms with poor growth (Mohanram (2005)), and f irms with high accruals are 
more likely to suffer subsequent earnings disappointments and their stocks tend to 
underperform peers with low accruals (Sloan (1996), and Richardson, Sloan, Soliman, a nd 
Tuna (2005)). While these papers are very different and appear disconnected, our framework 
illustrates a  unifying theme, namely that all these effects are about the outperformance of 
high-quality stocks, and we link returns and prices.  
Our paper is also related to the literature that considers how the price-to-book predicts 
future returns and future fundamentals based on the present-value relationship. Campbell and 
Shiller (1988) consider the overall market, and their dividend growth variable can be 
interpreted an as aggregate quality variable. Vuolteenaho (2002) and  Fama and French 
(2006) consider individual stocks. Cohen, Polk, and Vuolteenaho (2009) consider how cash -
flow betas affect price levels and long -run returns, but they do not consider the pricing of 
other quality measures. See also the overview by Cochrane (2011) and references therein. 
In summary, most of the characteristics that we study are well -known accounting 
variables, but we complement the literature by studying (i) how quality affect price multiples 
and how much of the cross-sectional variation of price multiples can be explained by quality; 
(ii) how the price of quality varies over time ; (iii) how the current p rice of quality predicts 
the future return on quality factors; (iv) how our quality framework unifies a number of 

--- PAGE 8 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 8 
 
anomalies; and (v) how a unified quality factor can be used in asset pricing more broadly 
and, importantly, how it resurrects the size effect. 
Our evidence presents a puzzle: why is the price of quality (the amount investors are 
willing to pay for higher quality characteristics)  positive but still quite low and why, 
presumably a related or even the same question, is the return to QMJ so high? Our results are 
consistent with a too low market price of quality and inconsistent with an alternative view 
that t he market prices simply reflect  better measures of quality due to the high returns of 
QMJ. Furthermore, o ur QMJ fa ctor has a ne gative market beta  and factor loadings  and 
performs well in recessions and crises, presenting a challenge to risk -based explanations , 
although that possibility, as always, remains open.  
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 1  presents our data and quality 
measures. Section 2 shows that ex ante quality forecasts  future quality (i.e., quality is sticky 
as would be necessary for it to be priced) . Section 3 analyzes the price of quality. Section 4 
considers the return of quality stocks and Section 5 the return of QMJ. Section 6 connects the 
current price and future return of quality . Section 7 considers QARP . Section 8 shows how 
QMJ affects the standard factors. Section 9 concludes. The appendix contains a number of 
additional results and robustness checks. 
 
 
 
1. Data, Methodology, and Quality Measures 
In this section we describe our data sources and the methodology for constructing our 
quality measures. 
Data Sources 
Our sample consists of 39,308 stocks covering 24 countries between June 1951 and 
December 2012. The 24 markets in our sample correspond to the countries belonging to the 
MSCI World Developed Index as of December 31, 2012.  We report summary stat istics in 
Table I. Stock returns and accounting data are from the union of the CRSP tape and the 

--- PAGE 9 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 9 
 
XpressFeed Global database . All returns are in USD, do not include any currency hedging, 
and are measured as excess returns above the U.S. Treasury bill rate.4 We follow the standard 
convention and align accounting variables at the end of the firm’s fiscal year ending 
anywhere in calendar year t-1 to June of calendar year t. 
We focus on a long sample of U.S. stocks and a broad sample of global stocks. Our 
long sample of U.S. data include s all available co mmon stocks  on the merged 
CRSP/XpressFeed data . 5  The CRSP/XpressFeed database’s first available date for U.S. 
securities is June 1951 since accounting data starts in fiscal year 1950. However, since some 
of our variables are five-year growth measures, the first available date for our regressions and 
return test is June 1956. 
Our broad sample of global data includes all available common stocks on the union 
of the CRSP tape and the XpressFeed Global database  for 24 developed markets.6 We assign 
individual issues to the corresponding market based on the location of the primary exchange. 
For companies traded in multiple markets we use the primary trading vehicle identified by 
XpressFeed. As shown in Table I, with the exception of Canada (whose coverage starts in 
1982) for most countries XpressFeed’s Global coverage starts in 1986. Our sample runs from 
January 1986 to December 2012. 
Quality Score 
We use  a variety of quality measure s. We are interested in identifying stocks o f 
profitable, stable, safe and high payout companies. To avoid data mining, we use a broad set 
of measures for each aspect of quality and average them to compute four composite proxies: 
Profitability, Growth, Safety and Payout. We then average the four proxies to compute a 
single quality score. Our results are qualitatively robust to the specific choices of factors. 
                                                 
 
4 We include delisting returns when available in CRSP. Delisting returns are not available for our international 
sample. If a firm is delisted but the del isting return is missing, we investigate the reason for disappearance. If 
the delisting is performance-related, we follow Shumway (1997) and assume a -30% delisting return. 
5 Common stocks are identified by a CRSP share code (SHRCD) of 10 or 11. 
6 Common stocks are identified by an XpressFeed issue code (TPCI) of 0.  
 

--- PAGE 10 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 10 
 
Having multiple measures of quality makes our finding of a low explanatory power of 
quality on prices all the more surprising.  
Our quality measures are constr ucted as follows ( details are in the a ppendix). We 
measure profitability by gross profits over assets (GPOA), return on equity (ROE), return on 
assets (ROA), cash flow over assets  (CFOA), gross margin (GMAR), and the fraction of 
earnings composed of cash ( i.e. low accruals, ACC ). In order  to put each measure on equal 
footing and combine them, each month we convert each variable into ranks and standardize  
to obtain a z-score. More f ormally, let   be the variable of interest and   be the vector of 
ranks,            . Then the z-score of x is given by                  , where    
and    are the cross sectional mean and standard deviation  of r. Our              score is 
the average of the individual z-scores:  
 
               (                                )    (2) 
 
Similarly, we measure growth as the five-year prior growth in profitability, averaged across 
over measures of profitability: 
        (                                      )    (3) 
Here,   denotes five -year growth. Specifically, f or each profitability measure, we definite 
five-year growth as the change in the numerator (e.g. profits) divided by the lag ged 
denominator (e.g. assets). We define safe securities as companies with low beta (BAB),  low 
idiosyncratic volatility (IVOL), low leverage (LEV) , low bankruptcy risk ( O-Score and Z -
Score) and low ROE volatility (EVOL):  
                                           (4) 
We define our payout score using equity and debt net issuance (EISS, DISS) and total net 
payout over profits (NPOP): 
        (                 )         (5) 
Finally, we combine the four measures into a single quality score: 

--- PAGE 11 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 11 
 
                                                (6) 
 
Portfolios 
Our portfolio analysis relies on two sets of test  factors: quality-sorted portfolios and 
quality-minus-junk factors (hereafter, QMJ factors). For both approaches, we form one set of 
portfolios in each c ountry and compute global portfolios by weighting each country’s 
portfolio by the country’s total (lagged) market capitalization.  
To form quality-sorted portfolios, at the end of each calendar month, we assign stocks 
in each country to ten quality-sorted portfolios. U.S. sorts are based on NYSE breakpoints.  
Portfolios are value -weighted, refreshed every calendar month, and rebalanced every 
calendar month to maintain value weights.  
The QMJ portfolio construction follows Fama and French (1992, 1993 and 1996) and 
Asness and Frazzini  (2013). QMJ factors are constructed as the intersection of six value -
weighted portfolios formed on size and quality. At the end of each calendar month, we assign 
stocks to two size -sorted portfolios based on their market capitalization. For U.S. securities, 
the size breakpoint is the median NYSE market equity. For International securities the size 
breakpoint is the 80th percentile by country  (which in the U.S. corresponds appr oximately to 
NYSE breakpoints). We use conditional sorts, first sorting on size, then on quality. Portfolios 
are value-weighted, refreshed every calendar month, and rebalanced every calendar month to 
maintain value weights. The QMJ factor return is the average return  on the two high-quality 
portfolios minus the average return on the two low-quality (junk) portfolios: 
 
      
 
                             
 
                       
          
 
   mall  ualit              
 
               ig  un                       (7) 
                                  
                in small stocks                          in big stocks      
 
Separate sub-portfolios based on the four components of quality (profitability, growth, safety 
and payout score) are constructed in a sim ilar manner. We consider alphas with respect to a 


--- PAGE 12 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 12 
 
domestic and global factors for the market  (MKT), size (small-minus-big, SMB), book -to-
market (high-minus-low, HML), and momentum (up-minus-down, UMD).7 
 
2. Ex Ante Quality Forecasts Fundamentals 
We start by showing that a stock’s quality is a persistent characteristic. That is, by 
picking stocks that were profitable, gr owing, safe, and well managed in  the recent past, we 
succeed in picking stocks that display these characteristics in the future. This step is 
important when we turn to the central analysis of whether the  high quality firms command 
higher prices since, in a forward-looking rational market , prices should be related to future 
quality characteristics. Of course, predictability of quality is perfectly consistent with an 
efficient market – market efficiency says only that, since price s should reflect quality, stock 
returns should be unpredictable (or only predictable due to risk premia) not that quality itself 
should be unpredictable. 
Table II analyzes the predictability of quality as follows. Each month, we sort stocks 
into ten portfolios by their quality scores (as defined in Section 1). The table then reports the 
value-weighted average of our quality measures across stocks in the portfolio at the time of 
the portfolio formation (time t) and in the subsequent ten years  (t + 120 months). We report 
the time series average of the value -weighted cross sectional means. The standard errors are 
adjusted for heter oskedasticity and autocorrelation with a lag length of five years (Newey 
and West (1987) ). Table II shows that , on average, quality firms today remain high quality 
firms five and ten years into the future  (conditional on survival) and we can reject the null  
hypothesis of no difference in each of qualit y characteristics up to ten years. Table A1 in the 
appendix reports  additional results: we sort firms separately using each component of our 
quality score (profitability, growth, safety and payout) and report the spread in each variable 
up to 10 years, yielding similarly consistent results.  
                                                 
 
7 The risk factors follow Fama and French (1992, 1993, 199 6) and Asness and Frazzini (2013 ). We report a 
detailed description of their construction in the Appendix. The data can be downloa ded at 
http://www.econ.yale.edu/~af227/data_library.htm.  

--- PAGE 13 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 13 
 
To summarize, qualit y is a per sistent characteristic such that  high quality today 
predicts future  high quality . For both the U.S. long and global sample , profitability is the  
most persistent and, while still surprisingly stable, growth and payout are the least persistent.   
 
3. The Price of Quality 
Given that quality can be measured in advance, we now turn to the central question of 
how quality is priced: Do high-quality stocks trade at higher prices than low-quality ones?  
To address this question,  we run a cross-sectional regression of the z-score of each 
stock i's market-to-book (MB) ratio on its overall quality score,  ualit  
   (defined in Section 
1). Specifically, we let   
        
  and run the regression: 
 
  
             
    
                  (8) 
 
This regression tests whether high quality is associated with high prices  in the cross section . 
Using z-scores limits the effect of outliers and it implies that the regression coefficient b has 
a simple interpretation: if quality improves by one standard deviation, then the price-to-book 
increases by b standard deviations.8 
Panel A of Table III  reports results of Fama and MacBeth (1973) regressions of 
prices on q uality. Every month, we regress scaled prices on quality measures and we report 
time series ave rages of the c ross sectional slope estimates . Standard errors are adjusted for 
heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation (Newey and West (1987)) with a lag length of 12 
months. We run the regression with and without country-industry fixed effects. These fixed 
effects are implemented by varying the standardization universe of our z-scores. That is, to 
implement country-industry fixed effects , we convert each variable into ranks  by country -
industry and standardize to obtain a z-score by country-industry pair , ea ch month.  In this 
case, b has the interpretation that, if quality improves by one standard deviation above its 
                                                 
 
8 Using (log) market -to-book on the left hand side as opposed to z -scores does not impact any of the results  
qualitatively. For brevity we only report results based on z-scores. 

--- PAGE 14 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 14 
 
country-industry mean, then the price -to-book increases by b standard deviations above its 
country-industry mean. 
Columns (1) -(8) in Table III panel A show that the price of quality  b is generally 
positive: high quality firms command higher (scaled) prices. Indeed, the price of quality is 
positive both in the U.S. and global samples and across specifications with controls and fixed 
effects. The highest estimated price of quality is 0.32, in the univariate specification, and it is 
highly statistically significant . This coefficients means that a one standard deviation change 
in a stock’s quality score is associated (in the cross section) with a 0.32  standard deviation 
change in its price-to-book score.  
While theory does not provide specific guidance on what the R2 “should” be, t he 
explanatory power of quality on price appears limited. Quality explains only 12% of the 
cross sectional variation in prices in our U.S. sample and only 6% in our global sample. 
 We also include controls for firm size and stock return over the prior year. We 
measure each of these controls as the z-score of their cross-sectional rank for consistency and 
ease of interpretation of the coefficients. We see that larger firms are more expensive 
controlling for quality. This result is the analogue of the size effect on returns ( Banz (1981), 
see also Berk (1995) ) expre ssed in terms of prices.   That is, big firms, even for the same 
quality, are more expensive, possibly leading to the return effect observed by Banz.  The size 
effect could arise as large firms have less liquidity risk than small firms (Acharya  and 
Pedersen (2005)) and thus we cannot dismiss that these higher prices are rational.   
Past returns have a pos itive effect on current prices. We include past returns to 
account for the fact that prices and book values are not measured at the same time. Hence, 
the positive coefficients on the past returns simply reflect that high recent returns will raise 
prices while the book value has not had t ime to adjust . 9 We see that the R2 increases 
markedly with these controls, but both the magnitude and the significance of the coefficient 
on quality actually drops with the inclusion of controls. The maximum R2 is below 31% in all 
                                                 
 
9 See Asness and Frazzini (2013). 

--- PAGE 15 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 15 
 
of these specifications, leaving the vast majority of cross sectional variation on prices 
unexplained. . 
  Panel B of Table III  considers cross -sectional regressions on each separate quality 
score, univariately and multivariately: 
 
       
                     
           
           
           
    
   (9) 
 
We see that prices of profitability and growth are unambiguously positive, the price of safety 
is positive in a univariate regression but negative in the presence of other quality measures  
and controls, and the p rice of payout is consistently estimated to be negative.10 It is natural 
that the market pays a price for profitability and growth. The surprisingly  low price of safety 
is a price-based analogue to the flat security market line ( Black, Jensen, and Scholes (1972) 
and Frazzini and P edersen (2013)) and it is consistent with Black (1972) and Frazzini and 
Pedersen (2013) theory of leverage constraints. If investors are constrained from leveraging , 
risky assets command higher prices (and lower returns) while safe  assets have lower prices 
(and higher returns). The negative price of payout could be driven by reverse causality: firms 
that have high (low) prices may opportunistically issue (repurchase) shares.  
 The average R2 increases when we include all four quality components, reaching 40% 
in the U.S. and 31% in the global sample but still leaving a large part of the cross section of 
prices unexplained.  
 
4. The Return of Quality Stocks  
We turn from the pricing of quality to the closely related issue of the return of  quality 
stocks. The return of quality stocks is important as it can help us further interpret our findings 
on the price of quality. We would like to shed light on our finding that quality explains prices 
only to a limited extent: is this finding because o f (a) limited market efficiency ; (b) the 
                                                 
 
10 Regressing prices on safety alone and controlling for size and past returns also yields an (insignificant) 
negative price of safety. 

--- PAGE 16 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 16 
 
market uses superior quality measures (and, if we observed these measures,  they would be 
strongly related to prices) or in some cases reverse causality; or (c) quality is linked to risk in 
a way not captured by  our safety measure. Explanation (a) implies that high -quality stocks 
have higher risk -adjusted returns than  low-quality stocks as investors are underpricing high 
quality characteristics ; ( b) implies no relation between our measured quality and ex post 
returns or at least a greatly attenuated one ; while (c) implies a univariate relation between 
quality and future returns which is reduced or eliminated by an effective risk model. 
Table IV reports the returns of stocks sorted into ten deciles based on their qualit y 
score. The table reports both excess returns over T -bills and alphas with respect to, 
respectively, the CAPM 1 -factor model, the Fama and French (1993) 3 -factor model (which 
includes the size factor SMB and the value factor HML in addition to the market factor 
MKT), and the 4-factor model that also includes the momentum factor UMD (Jegadeesh  and 
Titman (1993),  Asness (1994) , and Carhart (1997) ). Specifically, these alp has are the 
intercepts from the following regression with the first 1, 3, or 4 right -hand-side variables 
included: 
 
                                                   (10) 
    
  We see that excess return s increase almost monotonically in quality such that high -
quality stocks outperform low -quality stocks. The right -most column reports the return 
difference between the highest and lowest deciles  and the associated t-statistic, showing that 
high quality st ocks earn higher average returns than low quality stocks (between 47 and 68 
basis points per month depending on the sample) and we can reject the null hypothesis of no 
difference in average returns (t-statistics ranging between 2.80 and 3.22).  
When we control for market risk and other factor exposures, the outperformance in 
the alpha of high -quality stocks  is in fact even larger. This higher outperformance arises  
because high -quality stocks actually have lower market and factor exposures than low -
quality stocks.  Adjusting by the CA PM alone  materially strengthens our results as higher 
quality stocks are, partly by construction, lower beta stocks.  Across our three risk models i n 
our long U.S. sample, a portfolio that is long high quality stocks and short low quality stocks 
earns average abnormal returns ranging from 71 to 97 basis points per month with associated 

--- PAGE 17 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 17 
 
t-statistics ranging between 4.92 and 9.02. In our broad global sample , we obtain similar 
results with abnormal returns between 89 to 112 basis point s and t-statistics between 5.00 
and 6.06. 
 Our results are thus inconsistent with explanation (b) discussed above. Further, a 
simple risk explanation (c) is inconsistent with our finding that  high-quality stocks have 
lower market exposures than junk stocks, but we study risk in more detail by considering the 
performance of the QMJ factor.  
 
5. Quality Minus Junk 
In this section we examine the returns of our QMJ factor s. As described in Section 1 
(Equation 7), QMJ is long the average of the               and             portfolios and 
short the average of the             and          portfolios. We also construct long/short 
factors based on each separate quality component using the same method. Hence, in addition 
to QMJ, we have quality factors based on profitability, safety, growth, and payout. 
 Table V reports the correlations between the different quality components. The table 
reports the correlation both for the excess returns and for the abnormal returns relative to a 4 -
factor model (i.e., the correlations of the regression residuals). We see that all of the pairwise 
correlations among the quality components are positive, except the correlation between 
growth and payout. The negative correlation reflects that higher payout is naturally 
associated with lower growth. The average pairwise correlation among the quality 
components is 0.40 in the US and 0.45 in the global sample, and 0.38 for abnormal returns in 
both samples. Hence, while the quality components measure different firm characteristics 
that investors should be wi lling to pay for, firms that are high quality in one respect tend to 
also be high quality in other respects. This did not have to be.  Each of these  variables, we 
argue, are quality measures investors should pay for at the margin, but they did not ha ve to 
be related to one another.  While theory is no guide here , we think these significant positive 
correlations lend support to our practical decision to combine these four thematic sets of 
measures as one quality variable. 
 Table VI reports the performance of  each of our quality factors in the US  (panel A) 
and globally (panel  B). Specifically, the table reports the average exc ess return s and the 
alphas with respect to the 1 -, 3 -, and 4 - factor models.  We see that e ach quality factor 

--- PAGE 18 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 18 
 
delivers a statistically significant positive excess return and alpha with respect to the 1 -, 3-, 
and 4-factor models in the U.S. sample and significant 4-factor alphas in the global sample as 
well (the 3- and 4-factor results are quite similar as momentum, or UMD,  does not change 
much). Naturally, the overall QMJ factor is the strongest  or the four, with highly significant 
alphas in the U.S. and global samples.  The abnormal returns  are large in magnitude a nd 
highly statistically significant. In our U.S. long sample  a QMJ portfolio that is long high 
quality stocks and short junk stocks delivers 1 -, 3-, and 4-factor abnormal returns of 55, 68 , 
and 66 basis point s per month ( with corresponding t-statistics of  7.27, 11.10 , and 11.20).  
Similarly, in our Global broad samp le, the QMJ factor earns abnormal returns of 52, 61 and 
45 basis points per month (with corresponding t-statistics of 5.75, 7.68, 5.50).   
 Panels A and B of Table VI also report the risk-factor loadings for the 4-factor model.  
We see that the QMJ factor has a significantly negative market and size exposures.   That is, 
QMJ is long low-beta and large stocks, while being short high-beta small ones. As would be 
expected, the safety factor has the  most negative market exposure , though only  growth 
attains a zero or small positive market beta, the other quality composites also show negative 
beta. The value exposure of QMJ is negative in the U.S . Since we expect that high -quality 
stocks have high prices while the value factor HML is long cheap  stocks, we would expect a 
negative HML loading . We see that the profitability, safety, and growth  factors do have 
significantly negative HML loadings in the U.S. and global samples.  The payout factor has a 
positive loading in the U.S. and global samples.  As discussed above, this positive payout 
loading could be driven by cheap stocks endogenously choosing a low payout.   
 Panel C of Table VI and Figure 1 report  the performance of the QMJ factor across 
countries. Remarkably, the QMJ factor delivers positiv e returns and alphas in all but one of 
the 24 countries that we study, displaying a strikingly consistent pattern  (with the only small 
negative being in New Zealand , one of the smallest countries in market capitalization and 
number of stocks) . Furthermore 4-factors alphas are statistically significant in 17 out of 24 
countries which is striking given the fact that many individual count ries have a small cross 
section of securities and a short time series.  
 Figures 2 and 3 show  the performance of the QMJ fa ctor over time  in the U.S. and 
global samples. Specifically, Figure 2 shows the cumulative return of the QMJ factor (plotted 
as the cumulative sum of excess returns to avoid compounding issues) and Figure 3 shows 

--- PAGE 19 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 19 
 
the cumulative sum of QMJ’s 4-factor risk-adjusted returns  (the sum of the monthly in -
sample regression alpha plus the regression error) . Clearly, the QMJ factor has consistently 
delivered positive excess returns and risk -adjusted returns over time with no subsample 
driving our results.  
 We report  a series of robustness checks in the appendix. In Table A3 we split the 
sample in 20 -year subsamples and report QMJ returns by size (10 size -sorted based on 
NYSE-breakpoints). Table A4 and Figure A1 report results for large and small cap stocks 
within each country. Finally, Table A5 reports results for an alternative definition of the QMJ 
factor: we build a factor for each of the 22 quality measures we use and simply average the 
resulting portfolios returns to compute our profitability, growth, safety, pay out and QMJ 
factors. All the results point in the same direction with consistency across size, time period s, 
countries and construction methodology: QMJ portfolios that are long high quality stocks 
and short junk stocks earn large and significant 1- , 3- and 4-factor abnormal returns. 
 The return evidence on the QMJ  factors could potentially be consistent with both 
mispricing (quality stocks are underpriced and junk stocks are overpriced), or risk (quality 
stocks underperform junk stocks in bad states of the world). Although a full explanation of 
the driver of quality returns is beyond the scope of this paper, we can nonetheless provide 
some stylized fact s that either explanation should generat e in order to fit the available 
evidence.  
The evidence does no t point tow ard compensation for tail risk  as seen in Table VII . 
We compute the return of the QMJ factors during recession and expansions, during severe 
bear and bull markets (defined as total market returns in the past 12  months below -25% or 
above +25%), during periods of high and low market volatility ( we measure volatility as the 
1-month standard deviation of daily returns of the CRSP-value weighted index or the MSCI-
World index and split the sample in the 30% top and bottom time periods) and during periods 
of a large increase or drop in aggregate volatility (  again, we split the sample into the 30% 
top and bottom time periods in terms of the 1 -month change in volatility ). We find no 
evidence of compensation for tail risk, if anything quality appears to hedge (as opposed being 
correlated to periods) of market distress.  
 To study further the risk of QMJ, Figure 4 plots the performance of QMJ against the 
return on th e market. The negative beta of QMJ is clearly visible by the downward sloping 

--- PAGE 20 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 20 
 
relation of the excess return of QMJ and the market. Further, the relatively tight fit around 
the curve shows the limited residual risk, implying a strong and consistent historical 
performance of QMJ duri ng down periods for the market. QMJ also performs well in 
extreme down markets; in fact, the second -order polynomial showed in the graph has a 
positive (but insignificant) quadratic term (meaning that the fitted curve  bends upward in the 
extreme). This mild concavity is mostly driven by the returns to the profitability 
subcomponent of quality . In fact, the quadratic term is marginally significan t (t-statistic of 
2.0) for the profitability factor. The strong return in extreme down markets is consistent with  
a flight to quality  (or at least profitability).  That is, in dow n markets, investors may exhibit 
flight to quality in the sense that prices of unprofitable stocks drop more than the prices of 
profitable stocks, even adjusting for their betas.  The strong performance of QMJ in down 
markets is robust to considering longer down periods for the market such as down quarters or 
down years (not shown). Further, looking at the alphas reveal a similar pattern of mild flight 
to quality.   
Overall, our findings present a serious challe nge for risk -based explanations (to the 
extent that bad states of the world are related to large negative realization of market returns) 
as high quality stocks appear to protect investor s from severe market downturns.  Of course, 
alternative risk-based explanations are always possible. 
 
6. The Time Variation of the Price of Quality: Predicting QMJ 
It is interesting to consider how the price of quality varies ov er time. To study this, 
Figure 5 shows the time series of the price of quality, that is, the time series of the Fama -
MacBeth regression coefficients that we estimate above in Equation 8. We see that the price 
of quality varies significantly over time. As one might expect, the price of quality is lowest 
during the height of the internet bubble in early 2000 and has other large swings during time 
periods consistent with economics intuition as discussed in the introduction.  
The intuitive pattern of the price of quality suggests that the variation is not jus t 
driven by noise. To explore further the variation in the price of quality, it is interesting to link 
prices and subsequent returns in the time series. Specifically, if this time variation is not due 
to mis-measurement noise, then a high price of quality should predict low subsequent returns 

--- PAGE 21 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 21 
 
of QMJ. Table VIII provides evidence of such predictability. This table reports the regression 
coefficients of time-series regressions of future QMJ returns on the ex ante price of quality:  
 
                                                                         (11)        
                                                         
Said simply,          is the return of QMJ over the future k months,      is the lagged price 
of quality (the variable of interest), and             controls for past returns. Let us describe 
each of these variables in detail. 
We run the regression in two ways: Using the “raw” excess returns of the QMJ factor 
on the left hand side (“raw”) and using the alpha of the QMJ factor on the left hand side 
(“alpha”). The future excess return on the raw QMJ factor is computed simply by cumulating 
returns,          ∏ (             
 )  ∏ (      
 ) 
 
   . To compute the alphas, we regress 
QMJ on the contemporaneous returns of the market, size, value, an d momentum factors and 
compute the alpha as the regression residual plus the intercept (i.e., as the return of QMJ with 
its factor exposures hedged out) . We then cumulate these alphas          ∏ (        
   
    
 )  ∏ (      
 )  and use them on t he left hand side of (11). We consider alphas to ensure 
that the predictability of the price of quality on QMJ is not driven  by any potential 
predictability of other factors. 
The price of quality ,      is the lagged Fama -MacBeth regression coefficient fr om 
Equation (8) that gives the connection between price and quality at each time. Specifically, 
the price of quality is estimated as column (1) in Table III for the U.S. and column (5) for the 
global sample. We are interested in testing the hypothesis that a high lagged price of quality 
predicts lower subsequent returns, that is,          
Last,             is defined as the portfolio –weighted average of the past 1 -year 
returns of the stocks in the QMJ portfolio. This captures standard momentum effects, again 
to ensure that the predictability of the price of quality is a novel finding.  
Table VIII reports only the regression coefficient for the variable of interest,     , the 
ex ante price of quality.  We run overlapping forecasting regressions predicting returns from 
one month up to five years. We adjust standard errors for heteroskedasticity and 
autocorrelation induced by the overlapping returns (Newey and West (1987))  by setting the 
lag length equal to the forecasting horizon. 

--- PAGE 22 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 22 
 
Table VIII shows that a high price of quality indeed predicts  lower future returns on 
QMJ. In our U.S. long sample shown in Panel A, all the coefficient s have th e expected 
negative sign and we are able to reject the null hypothesis of no predictability in all but one 
specification. Predictability rise s with the forecasting horizon, indicating slowly changing 
expected returns. The results for our shorter global sample in Panel B are noisier, but we see 
that all of the statistically significant coefficients are negative as expected. The bottom rows 
of Table VIII similarly test whether the price of the separate quality characteristics predict 
the returns of the corresponding long/short factors. While thes e results are noisier , the 
estimates tend  to be negative and all of the statistically significant coefficients are again 
negative, as expected.  We also run these test s using cross sectional coefficients obtained 
from a regression of the log book-to-market (as opposed to ranks) on the quality scores, thus 
preserving the scale of the spread in book to market ratios. Results are in general stronger for 
the U.S. sample and similar for our global sample. We report these results in Table A6 of the 
Appendix. To summarize, the results in Table VIII and Table A6 are consistent with the 
hypothesis that the variation of the price of quality is no t pure noise but, rather, reflects 
changes in the market pricing of quality characteristics, generating variation in QMJ returns.  
 
7. Quality at a Reasonable Price 
It is interesting to consider what is the “fair” price of quality? That is, if we suppose 
that a stock’s fundamental value V is a multiple of its quality,            , then what is 
the fair value of m? Relatedly, if the market pays a price for quality different from m, then 
what is the best way to buy cheap quality stocks? 
To answer these questions, we construct a long -short portfolio that we call quality at 
a reasonable price  (QARP) as follows. Using the same factor construction as for QMJ, we 
construct a long-short portfolio based on the signal           
    
  for various choices of n. 
That is, QARP is based on the difference between a stock’s quality times n minus its price-
to-book score. We should get the highest alpha if we let    , that is, base the signal on the 
quality multiple that corresponds to the fundamental value  (m is of course unobservable) . 

--- PAGE 23 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 23 
 
Indeed, in this case, the portfolio is long the highest -alpha securities and short the lowest -
alpha securities.11 
If the highest-quality stocks were the most expensive, then the quality and price ranks 
would line up, implying that     . When we construct QARP empirically, we do find that 
the alpha is highest for n close to 1 both in the U.S. and globally. 
Another way to consider QARP is to simply form a portfolio of quality (QMJ) and  
value (HML).  The combination of QMJ and HML that has the highest Sharpe ratio puts a 
weight of about 70% on QMJ ( and, hence, the remaining 30% on HML) in the U.S. and 
about 60% weight on QMJ globally.  
The Sharpe ratio of QARP (whether constructed based on combining signals or 
combining factor returns) is naturally higher than either quality or value alone, about 0.7 in 
the U.S. and  0.9 globally. QARP performs well as q uality strategies complement value by 
helping an investor avoid the “value trap,” namely the trap of buying securities that look 
cheap but deserve to be cheap. Instead, QARP buys securities that are cheap relative to t heir 
quality. Our evidence suggests that the fair price of quality is above the level paid by the 
market. 
 
8. QMJ on the Right-Hand-Side of a Factor Model 
                                                 
 
11 For simplicity consider a 2 -period model  so that the fundamental value is the expected payoff at 
time 2 discounted at the required return,   
     
   , where k is the required return. The alpha of the security, that 
is, the expected excess return above the required return is then 
 
   (  
  
)          
  
      
 
Naturally, the alpha depends on the difference between the fundamental value   and the price   . Since our 
measures of quality and price are based on z-scores, we simply subtract the two (rather than dividing by price as 
above). 
 

--- PAGE 24 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 24 
 
We have seen that QMJ is an intuitive and powerful factor that has significant alpha 
relative to the standard factors. It is also interesting to switch things around and put QMJ on 
the right-hand-side to see how it affects the alphas  and interpretation of the standard factors. 
More broadly, QMJ is a useful factor to add to the toolbox of global factors, e.g., when 
researchers need to test whether new phenomena are driven by quality.  
Table IX reports the results of regressing each of the SMB, HML, and UM D on the 
other standard factors, wi th and without QMJ on the right -hand-side. Let us first consider 
SMB, that is, the size effect. SMB has a modest, but significant, excess return in our US 
sample and an insignificant excess return in the global sample.  I n both samples, however, 
SMB actually has a small and insignificant alpha when controlling for the other standard 
factors (the market, HML, and UMD). The size effect could appear to be a fluke, an artifact 
of SMB’s market exposure.12 
Controlling for QMJ com pletely changes this conclusion. SMB has a very large 
negative exposure to QMJ. Clearly, small stocks are junky relative to big stocks. This finding 
is intuitive as small stocks could, for instance, be young firms that are yet to be profitable, 
safe, and h igh payout. Moreover, controlling for QMJ, the size effect becomes large and 
highly sign ificant in both samples. The size effect is alive and well when we account for 
quality as small stocks outperform large stocks when we compare firms of similar quality  
(and market beta, value and momentum exposure) . This finding in return space is the analog 
of the strong size effect for prices that we documented in Table III. 
Table IX further shows that HML has a negative loading on QMJ. This is also 
intuitive as cheap stocks (with high book -to-market) are naturally lower quality than 
expensive stocks. This negative loading implies that controlling for QMJ increases the alpha 
of HML, strengthening the value effect.  
Lastly, UMD has positive loading on QMJ, which is signi ficant in the global but not 
U.S. sample. Controlling for this exposure to quality lowers the alpha of UMD, but the 
momentum effect remains highly significant in both samples.  Quality has several other 
                                                 
 
12 This alpha is further reduced if we include lagged versions of the market return on the right -hand-side to 
account for possible illiquidity in SMB, a complication we do not pursue in this paper.  

--- PAGE 25 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 25 
 
interesting implications for the standard factors and asset pricing more broadly , which  we 
intend to explore further in future research. 
 
9. Conclusion 
In this paper we define a quality security as one t hat has characteristics that  should 
command a higher (scaled) price . Following from the Gordon Growth Model, quality stocks 
are safe, profi table, growing, an d have high payout ratio . We create definitions of all four 
quality subcomponents, and quality in general, which are robust and inclusive from across 
the literature and test the hypothesis that high quality firms have higher scaled prices.   
Consistent with market efficiency, we find that high quality firms do exhibit higher 
prices on average. H owever, the explanatory power of quality on prices is low, leaving the 
majority of cross sectional dispersion in scaled prices unexplained. As a result , high quality 
firms exhibit high risk-adjusted returns. A quality-minus-junk ( QMJ) factor that goes long 
high-quality stocks and shorts low -quality stocks earns significant risk-adjusted returns with 
an information ratio  above 1 (i.e., a Sharpe ratio above 1 after hedging its other factor 
exposures) in the U.S. and globally across 24 countries.  
Our results present a puzzle for asset pricing. They are  consistent with quality stocks 
being underpriced and junk stocks overprice d or, alternatively,  with quality stocks  being 
riskier than junk stocks. However, while one can never rule out a risk explanation for the 
high return of quality stocks , we are unable to identify this risk ; in anything, we find  
evidence of the opposite. We show that quality stocks are low beta and, rather than exhibiting 
crash risk, if anything they benefit from  “flight to quality,” that is , they have a tendency to 
perform well during period s of extreme market d istress. These findings  present a challenge 
for risk-based explanations where bad states of the world are negatively correlated to extreme 
return realizations of the market factor.  
Finally, we show that the price of quality varies over time , generating a time-varying 
expected return on quality-minus-junk portfolios: a low price of quality predicts a high future 
return of quality stocks relative to junk stocks.  
In summary, w e document strong and consistent abnormal returns to quality, and do 
so in a far mo re inclusive and complete setting than prior papers using all four components 

--- PAGE 26 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 26 
 
implied by the Gordon Growth Model simultaneously.  We also tie these results to the cross -
section and time-series of the pricing of quality in novel ways.  
Our results present an important puzzle for asset pricing:  We cannot tie the returns of 
quality to risk, or, in a highly related finding, demonstrate that prices cross -sectionally vary 
“enough” with quality measures. At this point the returns to quality must be either a n 
anomaly, data mining (incredibly robust data mining  - including across countries , size and 
time periods, and encompassing the strong consistent U.S. and global correlations of quality 
to size), or the results of a still-to-be-identified risk factor not from the 4-factor model. 
 
  

--- PAGE 27 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 27 
 
References  
 
Acharya, Viral and Lasse Heje Pedersen (2005), “Asset Pricing with Liquidity Risk,” Journal 
of Financial Economics, 77, 375-410.   
 
Ang, A., R. Hodrick, Y. Xing, X. Zhang (2006), “The Cross -Section of Volatility and 
Expected Returns,” Journal of Finance, 61, pp. 259-299. 
  
– (2009), “High Idiosyncratic Volatility and Low Returns: International and Further U.S. 
Evidence,” Journal of Financial Economics, 91, pp. 1-23.  
 
Asness, Cliff., (1994), “Variables that Explain Stock Returns”, Ph.D. Dissertation, University 
of Chicago. 
 
Asness, C liff and A.  Frazzini (2013), “The Devil in HML’s Detail”, Journal of Portfolio 
Management, 39, 49-68. 
 
Asness, C., A. Fr azzini, and L. H. Pedersen (2012 ), “Leverage Aversion and Risk Parity”, 
Financial Analysts Journal, 68, 47-59. 
 
Baker, Malcolm and Jeff Wurgler (2002), “Market timing and capital structure,” Journal of 
Finance 57, 1-32. 
 
Banz, Rolf W.  (1981), “The relationship between return and market val ue of common 
stocks,” Journal of Financial Economics 9, 3–18. 
 
Berk, Jonathan B. (1995), “A Critique of Size-Related Anomalies,” The Review of Financial 
Studies, 8, 2, 275-286. 
 
Black, F. (1972), “Capital market equilibrium with restricted borrowing,” Journal of 
business, 45, 3, pp. 444-455. 

--- PAGE 28 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 28 
 
 
– (1992), “Beta and Return,” The Journal of Portfolio Management, 20, pp. 8-18.  
 
Black, F., M.C. Jensen, and M. Scholes (1972), “The Capital Asset Pricing Model: Some 
Empirical Tests.” In Michael C. Jensen (ed.), Studies in the Theory of Capital Markets, New 
York, pp. 79-121. 
 
Campbell, John Y. and Robert J. Shiller (1988), “The dividend-price ratio and expectations 
of future dividends and discount factors,” Review of Financial Studies 1, 195–228. 
 
Campbell, John Y ., J ens Hilscher, and Jan Szilagyi ( 2008), “In search of distress risk ”, 
Journal of Finance 63, 2899–2939. 
 
Carhart, Mark M. (1997)  “On persistence in mutual fund performan ce,” The Journal of 
Finance, 52, 1, 57-82. 
 
Cohen, Randolph B., Christopher Polk,  and Tuomo Vuolteenaho  (2009), “The price is 
(almost) right,” The Journal of Finance, 64, 2739-2782. 
 
Cochrane, John (2011), “Presidential Address: Discount Rates,” The Journal of Finance, 66, 
4, 1047-1108. 
 
Daniel, Kent and Sheridan Titman, (2006), “Market reaction to tangible and intangible 
information,” Journal of Finance 61, 1605-1643. 
 
Falkenstein, E.G. (1994), “Mutual funds, idiosyncratic variance, and asset returns”, 
Dissertation, Northwestern University. 
 
Fama, E.F. and French, K.R. (2013), “A Four -Factor Model for the Size, Value and 
Profitability Patterns in Stock Returns,” Working Paper. 
 

--- PAGE 29 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 29 
 
Fama, E.F. and French, K.R. (1993), “ Common risk factors in the returns on stocks and 
bonds,” Journal of Financial Economics 33, 3–56. 
 
Fama, E.F. and French, K.R. (2006), “ Profitability, investment and average returns ,” Journal 
of Financial Economics, 82, 461-518. 
 
Fama, Eugene F., and James D. MacBeth (1973),  “Risk, return, and equilibrium: Empirical 
tests,” The Journal of Political Economy, 81, 607-636. 
 
Frankel, Richard and Charles Lee. (1998) , “Accounting valuation, market expectation, and 
cross-sectional stock returns,” Journal of Accounting and Economics, 25 ,283-319. 
 
Frazzini, A. and L. H. Pedersen (2013 ), “Betting Against Beta”,  Journal of Financial 
Economics, forthcoming. 
 
Fu, F. (2009), “Idiosyncratic risk and the cross -section of expected stock returns,” Journal of 
Financial Economics, vol. 91:1, 24-37. 
 
Garleanu, N., and L. H. Pedersen (2009), “Margin -Based Asset Pricing and Deviations from 
the Law of One Price," UC Berkeley and NYU, working paper. 
 
George, Thomas J., and C.Y. Hwang (2010), “A Resolution of the Distress Risk and 
Leverage Puzzles in the Cross Section of Stock Returns,” Journal of Financial Economics, 
96, 56-79. 
 
Gibbons, M. (1982), “Multivariate tests of financial models: A new approach,” Journal of 
Financial Economics, 10, 3-27. 
 
Jegadeesh, Narasimhan and Sheridan Titman (1993), “Returns to Buying Winners and 
Selling Losers: Implications for Stock Market Efficiency,” The Journal of Finance, 48(1), 65-
91. 

--- PAGE 30 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 30 
 
 
Jensen, Michael C . (1986), “Agency costs of free cash flow, corporate finance, and 
takeovers,” The American Economic Review 76(2), 323-329. 
 
Kandel, S. (1984), “The likelihood ratio test statistic of mean -variance efficiency without a 
riskless asset,” Journal of Financial Economics, 13, pp. 575-592. 
 
Karceski, J. (2002), “Returns -Chasing Behavior, Mutual Funds, and Beta’s Death,” Journal 
of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 37:4, 559-594. 
 
McLean, David, Jeffrey Pontiff, and Akiko Watanabe (2009), “Share Issuance and Cross -
Sectional Returns: International Evidence,” Journal of Financial Economics 94, 1-17. 
 
Myers, Stewart, and N. Majluf (1984), “Corporate financing and investment decisions when 
firms have information that investors do not have,” Journal of Financial Economics 13, 187 –
221.  
 
Mohanram, Partha (2005), “ Separating Winners from Losers among Low  Book-to-Market 
Stocks using Financial Statement Analysis”, Review of Accounting Studies, 10, 133–170. 
 
Novy-Marx, Robert (2013), “ The Other Side of Value: The Gross Profitability Premium, ” 
Journal of Financial Economics 108(1), 2013, 1-28. 
 
Penman, Stephen H. (1996), “The articulation of price -earnings ratios and market -to-book 
ratios and the evaluation of growth,” Journal of Accounting Research, 34 (2), 235-259. 
 
Penman, Stephen, Scott Richardson, and Irem Tuna (2007), “The Book -to-Price Effect in 
Stock Returns: Accounting for Leverage,” Journal of Accounting Research, 45 (2), 427-467. 
 
Piotroski, Joseph D . (2000), “ Value Investing: The Use  of Historical Financial  Statement 
Information to Separate Winners from Losers,” Journal of Accounting Research, 38, 1-41. 

--- PAGE 31 ---

Quality Minus Junk - Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen - Page 31 
 
 
Pontiff, J., W. Woodgate (2008), “Share issuance and cross -sectional returns,” Journal of 
Finance 63, 921-945. 
 
Richardson, Scott, Richard G. Slo an, Mark Soliman, and Irem Tuna (2005), “Accrual 
Reliability, Earnings Persistence and Stock Prices,” Journal of Accounting and Economics 39 
(3), 437-485. 
 
Roll, Richard (1984), “Orange juice and weather,” American Economic Review, 74 (5), 861-
880. 
 
Roll, R. (1988), “R2,” Journal of Finance 43, 541–566. 
 
Scholes, M., and J. Williams (1977), “Estimating Betas from Nonsynchronous Data" Journal 
of Financial Economics ,5 ,309-327. 
 
Shanken, J. (1985), “Multivariate tests of the zero -beta CAPM,” Journal of Financial 
Economics, 14,. 327-348. 
 
Sloan, Richard G. (1996), "Do Stock Prices Reflect Information in Accruals and Cash Flows 
About Future Earnings?", The Accounting Review 71, 289-315. 
 
Summer, Lawren ce H. (1986), “Does the Stock Market Rationally Reflect Fundamental 
Values?,” The Journal of Finance 41, 3, 591-601. 
 
Vuolteenaho, Tuomo (2002), “ What Drives Firm -Level Stock Returns? ,” The Journal of 
Finance, 57, 1, 233-264. 

--- PAGE 32 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Tables and Figures – Page T1 
Table I 
Summary Statistics 
This table shows summary statistics  as of June of each year. The sample includes all U.S. common stocks 
(CRSP “shrcd” equal to 10 or 11) and  all global stocks (“tcpi” equal to 0) in the merged CRSP/ Xpressfeed 
global databases. 
 
 
 
Country Total number of 
stocks
Average number 
of stocks
Firm size  
(Billion-USD) 
Weight in global 
portfolio
 Start Year End Year
Australia 2,142                 660                    0.63 0.018 1986 2012
Austria 126                    56                      0.70 0.002 1990 2012
Belgium 231                    91                      2.37 0.009 1990 2012
Canada 1,901                 541                    1.08 0.022 1982 2012
Switzerland 343                    135                    4.06 0.023 1986 2012
Germany 1,492                 596                    3.01 0.061 1989 2012
Denmark 227                    85                      1.08 0.004 1986 2012
Spain 212                    82                      4.48 0.014 1986 2012
Finland 202                    83                      1.66 0.005 1986 2012
France 1,088                 397                    2.85 0.044 1986 2012
United Kingdom 3,312                 1,103                 1.83 0.095 1986 2012
Greece 239                    132                    0.48 0.002 1995 2012
Hong Kong 1,351                 516                    1.21 0.026 1989 2012
Ireland 106                    38                      1.58 0.002 1987 2012
Israel 284                    97                      0.64 0.003 1995 2012
Italy 356                    129                    2.37 0.018 1986 2012
Japan 3,856                 1,988                 1.29 0.202 1986 2012
Netherlands 250                    109                    4.70 0.021 1986 2012
Norway 429                    120                    0.96 0.004 1986 2012
New Zealand 176                    69                      1.26 0.003 1990 2012
Portugal 92                      38                      1.96 0.002 1990 2012
Singapore 860                    353                    0.60 0.009 1990 2012
Sweden 677                    203                    1.35 0.012 1986 2012
United States 19,356               3,594                 1.31 0.399 1951 2012

--- PAGE 33 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Tables and Figures – Page T2 
Table II 
Persistence of Quality Measures 
This table shows average quality score s. Each calendar month, stocks in each country in are ranked in ascending 
order on the basis of their quality score. The ranked stocks are assigned t o one of ten portfolios. U.S. sorts are 
based on NYSE breakpoints. This table reports the value-weighted average of quality measures across stocks in the 
portfolio at portfolio formation (t) up to the  subsequent ten years (t + 120 months). We report the time series 
average of the value -weighted cross sectional means. Panel A reports results from our Long Sample  of domestic 
stocks. The sample period runs from June 1956 to December 2012. Panel B reports results from our Broad Sample 
of global stocks. The sample period runs from June 1986 to December 2012. Standard errors are  adjusted for 
heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation with a lag length of five  years (Newey and West (1987)) and 5% 
significance is indicated in bold.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 P10 P10 - P1 P10 - P1
U.S., 1956 - 2012 (Low) (High) t-stat
Quality t -1.38 -0.71 -0.39 -0.15 0.05 0.25 0.46 0.69 1.00 1.56 2.94 47.46
Quality t + 12M -0.60 -0.29 -0.14 0.00 0.14 0.29 0.45 0.63 0.86 1.31 1.92 37.42
Quality t + 36M -0.33 -0.12 -0.05 0.05 0.15 0.27 0.40 0.54 0.74 1.16 1.49 33.01
Quality t + 60M -0.16 -0.02 0.04 0.09 0.16 0.22 0.35 0.46 0.68 1.04 1.20 20.68
Quality t + 120M -0.09 0.00 0.03 0.07 0.09 0.21 0.30 0.38 0.62 0.89 0.98 20.70
Profit t + 120M -0.37 -0.19 -0.10 0.05 0.12 0.18 0.29 0.35 0.59 1.08 1.44 20.74
Growth t + 120M -0.23 -0.19 -0.13 -0.12 -0.10 -0.12 -0.02 0.11 0.11 0.34 0.57 6.10
Safety t + 120M -0.28 -0.15 -0.03 0.08 0.15 0.21 0.35 0.49 0.63 0.67 0.95 9.68
Payout t + 120M 0.12 0.29 0.28 0.29 0.38 0.39 0.49 0.49 0.56 0.61 0.49 17.31
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 P10 H-L H-L
Global, 1956 - 
2012
(Low) (High) t-stat
Quality t -1.45 -0.79 -0.45 -0.19 0.04 0.25 0.47 0.72 1.04 1.62 3.07 42.28
Quality t + 12M -0.59 -0.29 -0.14 0.01 0.13 0.27 0.44 0.60 0.85 1.28 1.87 39.05
Quality t + 36M -0.30 -0.13 -0.05 0.06 0.13 0.23 0.36 0.48 0.70 1.07 1.37 44.95
Quality t + 60M -0.10 0.00 0.04 0.10 0.13 0.20 0.32 0.42 0.61 0.93 1.03 35.22
Quality t + 120M -0.08 -0.01 0.07 0.07 0.10 0.19 0.27 0.36 0.52 0.75 0.82 35.47
Profit t + 120M -0.28 -0.08 0.00 0.10 0.14 0.23 0.34 0.37 0.53 0.90 1.19 22.77
Growth t + 120M -0.19 -0.16 -0.15 -0.14 -0.12 -0.09 -0.07 0.00 0.09 0.18 0.37 6.40
Safety t + 120M -0.22 -0.14 -0.09 0.02 0.06 0.11 0.20 0.32 0.50 0.52 0.74 13.59
Payout t + 120M 0.17 0.28 0.35 0.31 0.42 0.42 0.49 0.48 0.51 0.57 0.40 8.15
Panel B: Broad Sample
Panel A: Long Sample

--- PAGE 34 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Tables and Figures – Page T3 
Table III 
Results: Cross Sectional Regressions, the Price of Quality 
This table reports coefficients from Fama-Macbeth regressions. The dependent variable is the  z-score of a stock’s 
market to book ratio (MB) in month t. The explanatory variables are the quality scores in month t and a series of 
controls. Size is the z-score of the stock’s market equity (ME).        is the stock return in month t. R            
is the stock return in the prior year . All variables are rescaled to have a zero mean and a standard deviation of one. 
When indicated (“Industry FE”, “Country FE”) variables are standardized by industry-country pairs. Average R2 is 
the time series averages of the adjusted  R-square of the cross sectional regression.  Standard errors are adju sted for 
heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation (Newey and West (1 987)) with a  lag length of 12 months. T -statistics are 
shown below the coefficient estimates and 5% statistical significance is indicated in bold. 
 
 
 
  
Panel A: The Price of Quality
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)
Quality 0.32 0.19 0.32 0.20 0.24 0.10 0.22 0.09
(22.47) (1 5.94) (23.92) (1 3.94) (23.33) (1 7.20) (24.39) (1 5.54)
Size . 0.31 . 0.30 . 0.29 . 0.31
. (1 9.1 9) . (27.08) . (1 7.71 ) . (20.91 )
Ret(t-12,t) . 0.27 . 0.28 . 0.27 . 0.28
. (21 .36) . (26.50) . (1 8.60) . (22.54)
Industry FE No No Yes Yes No No Yes Yes
Country FE Yes Yes Yes Yes
Average R2 0.12 0.31 0.11 0.30 0.06 0.25 0.05 0.26
Long Sample (U.S. , 1956 - 2012) Broad Sample (Global, 1986 - 2012)
Panel B: The Price of Each Quality Component
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10)
Profitability 0.41 . . . 0.30 0.29 . . . 0.19
(26.1 9) . . . (23.64) (33.76) . . . (31 .37)
Growth . 0.38 . . 0.11 . 0.28 . . 0.08
. (31 .1 8) . . (1 2.25) . (35.02) . . (1 2.67)
Safety . . 0.14 . -0.08 . . 0.11 . -0.10
. . (9.95) . -(1 1 .38) . . (8.1 9) . -(1 2.59)
Payout . . . -0.10 -0.13 . . . -0.06 -0.10
. . . -(1 1 .1 1 ) -(1 8.41 ) . . . -(4.69) -(1 1 .23)
Size . . . . 0.28 . . . . 0.31
. . . . (26.22) . . . . (21 .67)
Ret(t-12,t) . . . . 0.28 . . . . 0.28
. . . . (28.69) . . . . (23.33)
Industry FE No No No No Yes No No No No Yes
Country FE Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Average R2 0.18 0.15 0.03 0.01 0.40 0.09 0.08 0.02 0.01 0.31
Long Sample (U.S., 1956 - 2012) Broad Sample (Global, 1986 - 2012)

--- PAGE 35 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Tables and Figures – Page T4 
Table IV 
Quality-Sorted Portfolios 
This table shows calendar -time portfolio returns. Each calendar month, stocks  in each country in are ranked in 
ascending order on the basis of their quality score. The ranked stocks are assigned t o one of ten portfolios. U.S. 
sorts are based on NYSE breakpoints. Portfolios are value -weighted, refreshed every calendar month, and 
rebalanced every cal endar month to maintain value weights. We form one set of portfolios in each country and 
compute global portfolios by weighting each country’s portfolio by the country’s total (lagged) market 
capitalization. The rightmost column reports returns of a self -financing portfolio that is long the high quality 
portfolio and shorts the low quality portfolio. This table includes all available common stocks on the 
CRSP/Xpressfeed merged  database for the markets listed in Table I. Alpha is the intercept in a  time-series 
regression of monthly excess return. The explanatory variables are the monthly returns from the market portfolio 
(MKT) and size (SMB), book -to-market (HML), and momentum (UMD) factor -mimicking portfolios.  Panel A 
reports results from our Long Sample  of domestic stocks. The sample period runs from June 1956 to  December 
2012. Panel B reports results from our Broad Sample of global stocks. The sample period runs from June 1986 to 
December 2012.  Returns are in USD, do not include currency hedging, and ex cess returns are above the U.S. 
Treasury bill rate. Returns and alphas are in monthly percent, t-statistics are shown below the coefficient estimates, 
and 5% statistical significance is indicated in bold. Beta is the realized loading on the market portfolio. Information 
ratio is equal to 4 -factor alpha (intercept) divided by the standard deviation of the estimated residuals in the time -
series regression. Sharpe ratios and information ratios are annualized. 
 
  
Panel A: Long Sample P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 P10 H-L
U.S. , 1956 - 2012 (Low) (High)
Excess return 0.15 0.36 0.38 0.39 0.45 0.45 0.57 0.47 0.58 0.61 0.47
(0.55) (1 .56) (1 .90) (2.04) (2.51 ) (2.60) (3.42) (2.75) (3.48) (3.68) (2.80)
CAPM alpha -0.53 -0.24 -0.15 -0.12 -0.02 -0.01 0.13 0.01 0.14 0.18 0.71
(-4.62) (-2.85) (-2.25) (-2.01 ) (-0.33) (-0.1 8) (2.41 ) (0.23) (2.71 ) (2.86) (4.92)
3-factor alpha -0.67 -0.38 -0.25 -0.21 -0.08 -0.06 0.12 0.01 0.16 0.29 0.97
(-7.83) (-5.47) (-4.47) (-4.1 1 ) (-1 .44) (-1 .09) (2.26) (0.1 2) (3.37) (5.24) (9.02)
4-factor alpha -0.56 -0.42 -0.26 -0.29 -0.14 -0.12 0.04 -0.05 0.19 0.41 0.97
(-6.24) (-5.73) (-4.26) (-5.39) (-2.37) (-2.22) (0.68) (-1 .08) (3.62) (7.1 0) (8.55)
Beta 1.28 1.22 1.08 1.09 1.03 1.01 0.97 1.00 0.95 0.90 -0.38
Sharpe Ratio 0.07 0.21 0.25 0.27 0.33 0.35 0.46 0.37 0.46 0.49 0.37
Information Ratio -0.90 -0.82 -0.61 -0.77 -0.34 -0.32 0.10 -0.15 0.52 1.02 1.23
Adjusted R2 0.90 0.91 0.92 0.93 0.90 0.91 0.91 0.93 0.92 0.90 0.60
Panel B: Broad Sample P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 P10 H-L
Global , 1986 - 2012 (Low) (High)
Excess return -0.03 0.35 0.43 0.38 0.52 0.46 0.57 0.52 0.61 0.65 0.68
(-0.08) (1 .01 ) (1 .42) (1 .25) (1 .85) (1 .74) (2.29) (2.08) (2.54) (2.78) (3.22)
CAPM alpha -0.61 -0.20 -0.06 -0.12 0.07 0.03 0.17 0.11 0.22 0.28 0.89
(-3.20) (-1 .1 9) (-0.42) (-0.90) (0.53) (0.25) (1 .52) (1 .05) (2.05) (2.44) (5.00)
3-factor alpha -0.73 -0.33 -0.18 -0.24 -0.02 -0.04 0.10 0.11 0.24 0.39 1.12
(-4.1 4) (-2.08) (-1 .33) (-1 .98) (-0.1 7) (-0.35) (0.92) (0.98) (2.1 7) (3.49) (7.68)
4-factor alpha -0.46 -0.24 -0.09 -0.23 0.01 -0.04 0.10 0.11 0.23 0.47 0.93
(-2.49) (-1 .44) (-0.63) (-1 .75) (0.06) (-0.36) (0.91 ) (0.95) (1 .97) (3.96) (6.06)
Beta 1.14 1.12 1.00 1.03 0.94 0.91 0.85 0.87 0.82 0.78 -0.36
Sharpe Ratio -0.01 0.20 0.27 0.24 0.36 0.33 0.44 0.40 0.49 0.53 0.62
Information Ratio -0.53 -0.30 -0.13 -0.37 0.01 -0.08 0.19 0.20 0.41 0.84 1.28
Adjusted R2 0.79 0.80 0.81 0.84 0.81 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.80 0.79 0.56

--- PAGE 36 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Tables and Figures – Page T5 
Table V 
Quality Minus Junk: Correlations 
This table shows correlation of monthly returns. Quality minus Junk (QMJ) factors are constructed as the intersection of six 
value-weighted portfolios formed on size and quality. At the end of each calendar month, stocks are assigned to two size -sorted 
portfolios based on their market capitalization. For U.S. securities, the size breakpoint is the median NYSE market equity. For 
International securities the size breakpoint is the 80th percentile by country. We use conditional sorts, first sorting on si ze, then 
on quality. Portfolios are value -weighted, refreshed every calendar month, and rebalanced every calendar month to maintain 
value weights. The QMJ factor return is the average return on the two high quality portfolios minus the average return on the  
two low quality (junk) portfolios. Portfolios based on profitability, growth, safety and payout score are constructed in a simila r 
manner. We form one set of portfolios in each country and compute global portfolios by weighting each country’s portfolio by 
the country’s total (lagged) market capitalization. This table includes all available common stocks on the CRSP/Xpressfeed 
merged database for the markets listed in Table I. Alpha is the intercept in a time -series regression of monthly excess return. 
The explanatory variables are the monthly returns from the market portfolio (MKT) and size (SMB), book -to-market (HML), 
and momentum (UMD) factor -mimicking portfolios. Panel A reports results from our Long Sample of domestic stocks. The 
sample period runs from June  1956 to December 2012. Panel B reports results from our Broad Sample of global stocks.  The 
sample period runs from June 1986 to December 2012. Returns are in USD, do not include currency hedging, and excess returns 
are abo ve the U.S. Treasury bill rate. Abnormal returns are constructed as the intercept plus the residual of a time-series 
regression of monthly excess return. The explanatory variables are the monthly returns from the market portfolio (MKT) and 
size (SMB), book-to-market (HML), and momentum (UMD) factor-mimicking portfolios. 
 
QMJ Profitability Safety Growth Payout QMJ Profitability Safety Growth Payout
QMJ 1.00 1.00
Profitability 0.82 1.00 0.79 1.00
Safety 0.88 0.64 1.00 0.86 0.84 1.00
Growth 0.24 0.52 0.15 1.00 0.28 0.36 0.27 1.00
Payout 0.69 0.35 0.53 -0.34 1.00 0.76 0.46 0.51 -0.19 1.00
QMJ 1.00 1.00
Profitability 0.82 1.00 0.70 1.00
Safety 0.72 0.43 1.00 0.71 0.76 1.00
Growth 0.42 0.49 0.18 1.00 0.35 0.30 0.15 1.00
Payout 0.62 0.44 0.30 -0.06 1.00 0.69 0.36 0.33 -0.09 1.00
Panel A: Long Sample (U.S. , 1956 - 2012) Panel B: Broad Sample (Global, 1986 - 2012)
Returns
Abnormal Returns (4-factor)
Returns
Abnormal Returns (4-factor)

--- PAGE 37 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Tables and Figures – Page T6 
Table VI 
Quality Minus Junk: Returns 
This table shows calendar -time portfolio returns  and factor loadings. Quality minus Junk (QMJ) factors are constructed as the 
intersection of six value-weighted portfolios formed on size and quality. At the end of each calendar month, stocks are assigned 
to two size -sorted portfolios based on their market capitalization. For U.S. securities, the si ze breakpoint is the median NYSE 
market equity. For International securities the size breakpoint is the 80th percentile by country. We use conditional sorts, first 
sorting on size, then on quality. Portfolios are value -weighted, refreshed every calendar mo nth, and rebalanced every calendar 
month to maintain value weights. The QMJ factor return is the average return on the two high quality portfolios minus the 
average return on the two low quality (junk) portfolios. Portfolios based on profitability, growth,  safety and payout score are 
constructed in a similar manner. We form one set of portfolios in each country and compute global portfolios by weighting each 
country’s portfolio by the country’s total (lagged) market capitalization.  This table includes all available common stocks on the 
CRSP/Xpressfeed merged database for the markets listed in Table I. Alpha is the intercept in a time -series regression of 
monthly excess return. The explanatory variables are the monthly returns from the market portfolio (MKT) and size (SMB), 
book-to-market (HML), and momentum (UMD) factor -mimicking portfolios. Panel A reports results from our Long Sample of 
domestic stocks. The sample period runs from June 1956 to December 2012. Panel B reports results from our Broad Sample of 
global stocks.  The sample period runs from June 1986 to December 2012. Returns are in USD, do not include currency 
hedging, and excess returns are above the U.S. Treasury bill rate. Returns and alphas are in monthly percent, t -statistics are 
shown below the coefficient estimates, and 5% statistical significance is indicated in bold.  Information ratio is equal to 4 -factor 
alpha (intercept) divided by the standard deviation of the estimated residuals in the time -series regression. Sharpe ratios and 
information ratios (i.e., the Sharpe ratio of the regression residual) are annualized. 
QMJ Profitability Safety Growth Payout QMJ Profitability Safety Growth Payout
Excess Returns 0.40 0.27 0.23 0.12 0.31 0.38 0.34 0.19 0.02 0.38
(4.38) (3.81 ) (2.06) (1 .63) (3.37) (3.22) (3.30) (1 .33) (0.24) (3.41 )
CAPM-alpha 0.55 0.33 0.42 0.08 0.46 0.52 0.43 0.34 0.02 0.49
(7.27) (4.78) (4.76) (1 .06) (6.1 0) (5.75) (4.61 ) (3.07) (0.1 8) (5.29)
3-factor alpha 0.68 0.45 0.59 0.20 0.43 0.61 0.53 0.50 0.14 0.44
(1 1 .1 0) (7.82) (8.68) (3.32) (6.86) (7.68) (6.1 1 ) (5.40) (1 .92) (5.1 7)
4-factor alpha 0.66 0.53 0.57 0.38 0.21 0.45 0.49 0.39 0.29 0.19
(1 0.20) (8.71 ) (7.97) (6.1 3) (3.43) (5.50) (5.34) (4.00) (3.91 ) (2.26)
MKT -0.25 -0.11 -0.34 0.05 -0.20 -0.24 -0.16 -0.28 0.00 -0.18
(-1 7.02) (-8.08) (-20.77) (3.35) (-1 4.47) (-1 4.36) (-8.33) (-1 3.74) (-0.06) (-1 0.50)
SMB -0.38 -0.21 -0.41 -0.05 -0.30 -0.33 -0.20 -0.31 -0.18 -0.23
(-1 7.50) (-1 0.21 ) (-1 7.00) (-2.53) (-1 4.82) (-9.46) (-5.07) (-7.48) (-5.62) (-6.58)
HML -0.12 -0.28 -0.23 -0.44 0.39 -0.01 -0.16 -0.22 -0.38 0.36
(-5.03) (-1 2.1 6) (-8.50) (-1 8.81 ) (1 6.68) (-0.31 ) (-3.95) (-5.23) (-1 1 .62) (9.89)
UMD 0.02 -0.07 0.01 -0.17 0.21 0.15 0.03 0.10 -0.14 0.24
(0.82) (-3.80) (0.64) (-8.55) (1 0.79) (5.54) (1 .01 ) (3.07) (-5.64) (8.57)
Sharpe Ratio 0.58 0.51 0.27 0.22 0.45 0.62 0.63 0.26 0.05 0.66
Information Ratio 1.46 1.25 1.14 0.88 0.49 1.16 1.13 0.84 0.83 0.48
Adjusted R2 0.57 0.37 0.63 0.40 0.60 0.60 0.34 0.58 0.35 0.52
Panel A: Long Sample (U.S. , 1956 - 2012) Panel B: Broad Sample (Global , 1986 - 2012)

--- PAGE 38 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Tables and Figures – Page T7 
Table VI (Continued) 
Quality Minus Junk: By Country 
This table shows calendar -time portfolio returns and factor loadings. Quality minus Junk (QMJ) factors are constructed as the 
intersection of six value-weighted portfolios formed on size and quality. At the end of each calendar month, stocks are assigned 
to two size -sorted portfolios based on their market capitalization. For U.S. securities, the size breakpoint  is the median NYSE 
market equity. For International securities the size breakpoint is the 80th percentile by country. We use conditional sorts, first 
sorting on size, then on quality. Portfolios are value -weighted, refreshed every calendar month, and reba lanced every calendar 
month to maintain value weights. The QMJ factor return is the average return on the two high quality portfolios minus the 
average return on the two low quality (junk) portfolios. Portfolios based on profitability, growth, safety and p ayout score are 
constructed in a similar manner. We form one set of portfolios in each country and compute global portfolios by weighting eac h 
country’s portfolio by the country’s total (lagged) market capitalization. This table includes all available comm on stocks on the 
CRSP/Xpressfeed merged database for the markets listed in Table I. Alpha is the intercept in a time -series regression of 
monthly excess return. The explanatory variables are the monthly returns from the market portfolio (MKT) and size (SMB ), 
book-to-market (HML), and momentum (UMD) factor -mimicking portfolios. Panel A reports results from our Long Sample of 
domestic stocks. The sample period runs from June 1956 to December 2012. Panel B reports results from our Broad Sample of 
global stocks.  Panel C report s results by country. The sample period runs from June 1986 to December 2012. Returns are in 
USD, do not include currency hedging, and excess returns are above the U.S. Treasury bill rate. Returns and alphas are in 
monthly percent, t -statistics are shown below the coefficient estimates, and 5% statistical significance is indicated in bold. 
Information ratio is equal to 4 -factor alpha (intercept) divided by the standard deviation of the estimated residuals in the time -
series regression. Sharpe ratios and information ratios are annualized. 
 
 
 
  
MKT SMB HML UMD
Australia 0.34 1.51 0.55 2.73 -0.17 -0.40 0.10 0.00 0.36 0.75 210          1995-2012
Austria 0.21 0.66 0.38 1.42 -0.33 -0.04 -0.15 0.11 0.16 0.36 198          1996-2012
Belgium 0.43 1.59 0.36 1.57 -0.16 -0.09 -0.16 0.27 0.38 0.41 210          1995-2012
Canada 0.61 2.98 0.39 2.05 -0.19 -0.07 0.28 0.21 0.59 0.43 306          1987-2012
Switzerland 0.39 1.41 0.64 3.17 -0.35 -0.31 -0.33 0.08 0.34 0.79 210          1995-2012
Germany 0.48 2.35 0.59 3.56 -0.24 -0.11 -0.19 0.05 0.56 0.92 210          1995-2012
Denmark 0.66 2.08 0.49 1.90 -0.20 -0.25 -0.34 0.17 0.50 0.48 204          1996-2012
Spain 0.15 0.58 0.20 0.88 -0.25 -0.08 -0.06 0.18 0.14 0.22 210          1995-2012
Finland 0.53 1.40 0.59 1.93 -0.08 -0.17 -0.51 -0.01 0.34 0.48 210          1995-2012
France 0.45 1.86 0.53 2.96 -0.27 -0.04 -0.17 0.16 0.45 0.76 210          1995-2012
United Kingdom 0.17 0.69 0.32 1.35 -0.27 -0.16 -0.15 0.08 0.15 0.33 246          1992-2012
Greece 1.35 2.54 1.06 3.07 -0.07 -0.21 -0.19 0.34 0.79 0.98 126          2002-2012
Hong Kong 0.61 1.72 1.02 4.15 -0.27 -0.42 -0.18 0.08 0.41 1.04 210          1995-2012
Ireland 0.53 0.85 0.84 1.59 -0.53 0.04 -0.17 0.12 0.20 0.39 208          1995-2012
Israel 0.66 1.72 0.85 2.67 -0.33 -0.13 -0.12 0.07 0.51 0.85 138          2001-2012
Italy 0.72 2.54 0.69 3.60 -0.21 -0.12 -0.22 0.26 0.62 0.91 198          1996-2012
Japan 0.22 1.02 0.38 2.40 -0.31 -0.28 -0.15 0.10 0.23 0.59 246          1992-2012
Netherlands 0.10 0.33 0.34 1.43 -0.37 -0.08 -0.15 0.04 0.08 0.35 210          1995-2012
Norway 0.61 1.95 0.68 2.47 -0.19 -0.23 -0.13 0.18 0.47 0.61 210          1995-2012
New Zealand 0.07 0.22 -0.05 -0.17 -0.15 -0.06 -0.14 0.16 0.05 -0.04 210          1995-2012
Portugal 0.86 1.87 0.89 2.30 -0.26 -0.08 -0.26 0.18 0.53 0.67 150          2000-2012
Singapore 0.26 0.90 0.44 2.38 -0.22 -0.31 -0.11 0.06 0.22 0.60 210          1995-2012
Sweden 0.40 1.49 0.50 2.36 -0.22 -0.26 -0.22 0.15 0.32 0.53 256          1991-2012
United States 0.40 4.38 0.66 10.20 -0.25 -0.38 -0.12 0.02 0.58 1.46 678          1956-2012
Global 0.38 3.22 0.45 5.50 -0.24 -0.33 -0.01 0.15 0.62 1.16 324          1986-2012
Date RangeNumber of 
months
Factor LoadingsExcess 
return
T-stat 
Excess 
return
4-factor 
Alpha
T-stat 
Alpha
Sharpe 
Ratio
Information 
Ratio

--- PAGE 39 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Tables and Figures – Page T8 
Table VII 
QMJ: Recessions, Severe Bear and Bull Markets and Volatility Environment 
This table shows calendar-time portfolio returns of QMJ factors in different macroeconomic environments. Quality minus Junk 
(QMJ) factors are constructed as the intersection of six value-weighted portfolios formed on size and quality. At the end of each 
calendar month, stocks are assigned to two size -sorted portfolios based on their market capitalization. For U.S. securit ies, the 
size breakpoint is the median NYSE market equity. For International securities the size breakpoint is the 80th percentile by 
country. We use conditional sorts, first sorting on size, then on quality. Portfolios are value -weighted, refreshed every calendar 
month, and rebalanced every calendar month to maintain value weights. The QMJ factor return is the average return on the two 
high quality portfolios minus the average return on the two low quality (junk) portfolios. Portfolios based on profitabili ty, 
growth, safety and payout score are constructed in a similar manner. We form one set of portfolios in each country and comput e 
global portfolios by weighting each country’s portfolio by the country’s total (lagged) market capitalization. This table inc ludes 
all available common stocks on the CRSP/Xpressfeed merged database for the markets listed in Table I. Alpha is the intercept 
in a time -series regression of monthly excess return. The explanatory variables are the monthly returns from the market 
portfolio (MKT) and size (SMB), book-to-market (HML), and momentum (UMD) factor-mimicking portfolios. Panel A reports 
results from our Long Sample of domestic stocks. The sample period runs from June 1956 to December 2012. Panel B reports 
results from our Broad Sample of global stocks.  The sample period runs from June 1986 to December 2012. Returns are in 
USD, do not include currency hedging, and excess returns are above the U.S. Treasury bill rate. Returns and alphas are in 
monthly percent, t -statistics are shown below the coefficient e stimates, and 5% statistical significance is indicated in bold. 
Information ratio is equal to 4 -factor alpha (intercept) divided by the standard deviation of the estimated residuals in the time -
series regression. Sharpe ratios and information ratios are an nualized. “Recession” indicates NBER recessions. “Expansion” 
indicates all other months. “Severe bear (bull) market” is defined as a total market return in the past 12 -month below (above) -
25% (25%).  “Low (high) volatility” indicated periods of low (high) market volatility. We measure volatility as the 1 -month 
standard deviation of daily returns of the CRSP -value weighted index or the MSCI -World index and split the sample in the top 
and bottom 30% high and low periods . “Spike Up (down) in Volatility ” indicate periods of large increases or drops in market 
volatility. We measure volatility changes as the 1-month change in market volatility and split the sample into the top and bottom 
30% high and low periods. 
 
Panel A: Long Sample
U.S., 1956 - 2012 Excess 
Return
CAPM 
Alpha
3-Factor 
Alpha
4-Factor 
Alpha
Excess 
Return
CAPM 
Alpha
3-Factor 
Alpha
4-Factor 
Alpha
Number 
of months
All Periods 0.40 0.55 0.68 0.66 4.38 7.27 11.10 10.20 678
Recession 0.76 0.73 0.96 0.95 2.77 3.55 5.76 5.61 110
Expansion 0.33 0.52 0.63 0.60 3.48 6.30 9.81 8.63 568
Severe Bear market 0.07 0.39 0.76 0.87 0.07 0.57 1.52 1.65 21
Severe Bull Market 0.42 0.42 0.56 0.68 2.39 2.67 4.49 5.07 135
Low Volatility 0.52 0.78 0.88 0.83 2.37 4.64 6.42 5.93 227
High Volatility 0.25 0.43 0.60 0.73 2.24 4.20 7.64 8.60 227
Spike Up in Volatility 0.49 0.57 0.65 0.67 2.68 3.97 5.48 5.39 226
Spike Down in Volatility 0.30 0.60 0.87 0.73 1.90 4.42 8.36 6.62 226
Broad Sample
Global, 1986 - 2012 Excess 
Return
CAPM 
Alpha
3-Factor 
Alpha
4-Factor 
Alpha
Excess 
Return
CAPM 
Alpha
3-Factor 
Alpha
4-Factor 
Alpha
Number 
of months
All Periods 0.38 0.52 0.61 0.45 3.22 5.75 7.68 5.50 324
Recession 0.84 0.46 0.89 0.92 1.70 1.60 3.84 4.51 37
Expansion 0.32 0.51 0.59 0.41 2.74 5.36 7.01 4.67 287
Severe Bear market 0.15 0.32 0.52 0.59 0.13 0.89 2.30 2.18 15
Severe Bull Market 0.71 0.73 0.59 0.61 2.95 3.13 3.17 3.15 55
Low Volatility 0.62 0.69 0.75 0.61 2.73 4.65 5.61 4.87 144
High Volatility 0.07 0.26 0.36 0.45 0.45 1.89 2.85 2.95 75
Spike Up in Volatility 0.34 0.48 0.45 0.35 1.52 2.97 3.15 2.48 114
Spike Down in Volatility 0.40 0.56 0.77 0.52 2.12 3.65 5.74 3.91 120
Return t-statistics
Return t-statistics

--- PAGE 40 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Tables and Figures – Page T9 
Table VIII 
Time Variation of the Price of Quality: High Price of Quality Predicts Low QMJ Returns 
This table shows the time series regression of future quality factor returns on the lagged price of quality. The left hand side i s the cumulative excess return of the QMJ factor (or 
profitability, growth, safety and payout factor)  over the future 1, 12, 36, or 60 months . Each regression is run in two ways: Using the “raw” quality factor returns on the left hand 
side (“raw”) or using the quality factor with its exposures to the market, size (SMB), book-to-market (HML), and momentum (UMD) hedged out (denoted “alpha”). The right hand 
side variables are the lagged price of quality and past quality returns. The lagged price of quality is the cross-sectional regression coefficient of market to book score on quality 
(Table III, Panel A column (1) and (5) and Panel B columns (1)-(4) and (6)-(9)). The past quality return is defined as the portfolio–weighted average of the past 1 -year returns of 
the stocks in the quality portfolio. Panel A reports results from our Long Sample of U.S. stocks from June 1956 to December 2012. Panel B reports results from our Broad Sample 
of global stocks  from June 1986 to December 2012. We report only the coefficient on the variable of interest, the lagged price of quality . T-statistics are shown below the 
coefficient estimates, and 5% statistical significance is indicated in bold.  Standard errors are adjusted for heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation (Newey and West (1987)) with lag 
length equal to the forecasting horizon. “Mean Adj R2 ” is the average adjusted R-squared across all the regression above. The intercept and prior returns are included in all 
regressions but not reported.  
 
 
  
Left-hand side
Raw Alpha Raw Alpha Raw Alpha Raw Alpha Raw Alpha Raw Alpha Raw Alpha Raw Alpha
QMJ -0.02 -0.01 -0.27 -0.17 -0.67 -0.52 -1.01 -1.32 -0.02 0.00 -0.41 0.05 -0.69 0.14 -1.06 -2.14
(-2.70) (-2.06) (-2.50) (-1 .73) (-2.61 ) (-2.08) (-2.27) (-2.77) (-1 .02) (0.40) (-2.31 ) (0.34) (-2.04) (0.35) (-2.40) (-4.33)
Profitability -0.02 -0.01 -0.20 -0.16 -0.58 -0.49 -0.86 -1.01 0.00 0.01 -0.17 0.07 -0.41 0.02 -1.36 -1.63
(-3.06) (-2.87) (-3.03) (-2.30) (-3.54) (-2.79) (-2.91 ) (-3.58) (0.21 ) (0.95) (-0.86) (0.41 ) (-0.73) (0.04) (-1 .64) (-2.1 7)
Growth -0.01 0.00 -0.07 0.00 -0.12 0.18 0.49 -0.20 -0.05 -0.04 -0.55 -0.53 -0.94 -1.21 -1.92 -0.61
(-0.92) (0.23) (-0.79) (-0.02) (-0.37) (0.68) (0.95) (-0.37) (-2.09) (-2.07) (-2.66) (-2.62) (-1 .37) (-2.81 ) (-3.1 6) (-0.81 )
Safety -0.03 0.00 -0.37 -0.11 -1.10 -0.67 -1.30 -1.84 -0.03 0.01 -0.38 0.07 -0.65 0.27 0.28 -0.53
(-2.62) (-0.35) (-3.27) (-1 .29) (-3.85) (-1 .46) (-1 .38) (-3.1 1 ) (-1 .41 ) (0.67) (-2.44) (1 .1 4) (-2.76) (1 .76) (0.75) (-1 .55)
Payout -0.03 -0.02 -0.30 -0.06 -0.66 -0.28 -0.91 -1.58 -0.05 -0.01 -0.37 0.02 -0.19 0.14 -0.77 -1.02
(-2.04) (-1 .54) (-2.06) (-0.64) (-1 .53) (-1 .26) (-1 .91 ) (-2.29) (-2.08) (-0.87) (-1 .59) (0.21 ) (-0.34) (0.31 ) (-1 .68) (-2.36)
Mean Adj R2 0.01 0.00 0.08 0.07 0.19 0.15 0.17 0.22 0.01 0.00 0.10 0.05 0.22 0.12 0.25 0.25
Panel A: Long Sample (U.S. , 1956 - 2012) Panel B: Broad Sample (Global, 1986 - 2012)
Return (t) Return (t, t+12) Return (t, t+36) Return (t, t+60) Return (t) Return (t, t+12) Return (t, t+36) Return (t, t+60)

--- PAGE 41 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Tables and Figures – Page T10 
Table IX 
Pricing HML, SMB and UMD 
This table shows calendar-time portfolio returns and factor loadings. Quality minus Junk (QMJ) factors are constructed as the 
intersection of six value-weighted portfolios formed on size and quality. At the end of each calendar month, stocks are assigned 
to two size -sorted portfolios based on their market capitalization. For U.S. securities, the size breakpoint is the median NYSE 
market equity. For International securities the size breakpoint is the 80th percentile by country. We use conditional sorts, first 
sorting on size , then on quality. Portfolios are value -weighted, refreshed every calendar month, and rebalanced every calendar 
month to maintain value weights. The QMJ factor return is the average return on the two high quality portfolios minus the 
average return on the two low quality (junk) portfolios. Portfolios based on profitability, growth, safety and payout score are 
constructed in a similar manner. We form one set of portfolios in each country and compute global portfolios by weighting eac h 
country’s portfolio by the country’s total (lagged) market capitalization. This table includes all available common stocks on the 
CRSP/Xpressfeed merged database for the markets listed in Table I. Alpha is the intercept in a time -series regression of 
monthly excess return. The other variables are the monthly returns from the market portfolio (MKT) and size (SMB), book -to-
market (HML), and momentum (UM D) factor-mimicking portfolios. We run a regression of the SMB, HML and UMD factors 
of the remaining ones excluding and including t he QMJ factor. Panel A reports results from our Long Sample  of domestic 
stocks. The sample period runs from June 1956 to December 2012. Panel B reports results from our Broad Sample of global 
stocks.  The sample period runs from June 1986 to December 2012. Returns are in USD, do not include currency hedging, and 
excess returns are above the U.S. Treasury bill rate. Returns and alphas are in monthly percent, t -statistics are shown below the 
coefficient estimates, and 5% statistical significance is indicated in bold. Information ratio is equal to 4 -factor alpha (intercept) 
divided by the standard deviation of the estimated residuals in the time -series regression. Sharpe ratios and information ratios 
are annualized. 
 
Left-hand side SMB SMB HML HML UMD UMD SMB SMB HML HML UMD UMD
Excess Returns 0.28 0.28 0.34 0.34 0.70 0.70 0.11 0.11 0.45 0.45 0.58 0.58
(2.54) (2.54) (2.66) (2.66) (4.52) (4.52) (0.92) (0.92) (2.77) (2.77) (2.69) (2.69)
Alpha 0.13 0.64 0.77 0.94 1.05 1.01 0.08 0.36 0.79 0.81 1.07 0.72
(1 .1 6) (6.39) (8.01 ) (9.35) (9.1 1 ) (8.05) (0.62) (3.02) (6.62) (6.39) (6.90) (4.44)
MKT 0.19 -0.08 -0.16 -0.23 -0.20 -0.18 0.06 -0.12 -0.09 -0.09 -0.20 -0.04
(7.38) (-3.06) (-7.04) (-8.74) (-7.39) (-5.61 ) (2.09) (-3.90) (-3.27) (-2.73) (-6.04) (-0.94)
SMB . 0.08 -0.03 0.04 0.07 -0.01 -0.02 0.02 0.21
. (2.34) (-0.86) (1 .05) (1 .33) (-0.24) (-0.36) (0.34) (2.80)
HML 0.10 -0.03 -0.81 -0.80 -0.01 -0.02 -0.89 -0.81
(2.34) (-0.86) (-23.24) (-22.1 0) (-0.24) (-0.36) (-1 6.81 ) (-1 5.23)
UMD 0.04 0.04 -0.55 -0.53 0.02 0.11 -0.53 -0.52
(1 .05) (1 .33) (-23.24) (-22.1 0) (0.34) (2.80) (-1 6.81 ) (-1 5.23)
QMJ -0.83 -0.29 0.06 -0.67 -0.03 0.58
(-1 7.50) (-5.03) (0.82) (-9.46) (-0.31 ) (5.54)
Sharpe Ratio 0.34 0.34 0.35 0.35 0.60 0.60 0.18 0.18 0.53 0.53 0.52 0.52
Information Ratio 0.17 0.96 1.10 1.36 1.23 1.18 0.13 0.66 1.31 1.33 1.36 0.95
Adjusted R2 0.07 0.36 0.45 0.47 0.46 0.46 0.01 0.22 0.47 0.46 0.50 0.55
Panel A: Long Sample (U.S. , 1956 - 2012) Panel B: Broad Sample (Global , 1986 - 2012)

--- PAGE 42 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Tables and Figures – Page T11 
Figure 1 
QMJ: 4-Factor Adjusted Information Ratios 
This figure shows 4-factor adjusted information ratios of  Quality minus Junk (QMJ) factors . This figure includes all available 
common stocks on the CRSP/Xpressfeed merged database for the markets listed in Table I. Alpha is the intercept in a time -
series regression of monthly excess return. The explanatory variables are the monthly returns from the market portfolio (MKT)  
and size (SMB), book -to-market (HML), and momentum (UMD) factor-mimicking portfolios.  Returns are in USD, do not 
include currency hedging, and excess returns are abo ve the U.S. Treasury bill rate. Information ratios are equal to alpha divided 
by the standard deviation of the estimated residuals in the time-series regression. Information ratios are annualized. 
 
  
 
  
-0.20
0.00
0.20
0.40
0.60
0.80
1.00
1.20
1.40
1.60
Australia
Austria
Belgium
Canada
Switzerland
Germany
Denmark
Spain
Finland
France
United Kingdom
Greece
Hong Kong
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Netherlands
Norway
New Zealand
Portugal
Singapore
Sweden
United States
Global

--- PAGE 43 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Tables and Figures – Page T12 
Figure 2 
QMJ: Cumulative Returns 
This figure shows  cumulative returns of Quality minus Junk (QMJ) factors. This figure includes all available 
common stocks on the CRSP/Xpressfeed  merged database for the markets listed in Table I. Panel A reports results 
from our Long Sample  of domestic stocks. The sample period runs from June 1956 to December 2012. Panel B 
reports results from our Broad Sample of global stocks. The sample period runs from June 1986 to December 2012. 
Returns are in USD, do not include currency hedging. 
 
Panel A: Long Sample (U.S. , 1956 - 2012)
Panel B: Broad Sample (Global , 1986 - 2012)
-50%
0%
50%
100%
150%
200%
250%
300%
350%
1956
1959
1962
1965
1968
1971
1974
1977
1980
1983
1986
1989
1992
1995
1998
2001
2004
2007
2010
QMJ Cumulative Return, Long Sample (U.S.)
-20%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
120%
140%
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
QMJ Cumulative Return , Broad Sample (Global)

--- PAGE 44 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Tables and Figures – Page T13 
Figure 3 
QMJ: Cumulative 4-Factor Alphas 
This figure shows 4 -factor adjusted cumulative returns of Quality minus Junk (QMJ) factors. This figure includes 
all available common stocks on the CRSP/Xpressfeed merged database for the markets listed in Table I. Panel A 
reports results from our Long Sample  of domestic stocks. The sample period runs from June 1956 to December 
2012. Panel B reports results from our Broad Sample of global stocks. The sample period runs from June 1986 to 
December 2012. Alpha is the intercept in a time -series regression of monthly excess return. The explanatory 
variables are the monthly returns from the market portfolio (MKT) and size (SMB), book -to-market (HML), and 
momentum (UMD) factor-mimicking portfolios. Returns are in USD, do not include currency hedging, and excess 
returns are above the U.S. Treasury bill rate. We plot cumulative abnormal returns (alpha plus regression residual) 
from the time series regression. 
 
Panel A: Long Sample (U.S. , 1956 - 2012)
Panel B: Broad Sample (Global , 1986 - 2012)
-50%
0%
50%
100%
150%
200%
250%
300%
350%
400%
450%
500%
1956 1959 1962 1965 1968 1971 1974 1977 1980 1983 1986 1989 1992 1995 1998 2001 2004 2007 2010
Cumulative 4-Factor Alpha, Long Sample (U.S.)
-20%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
120%
140%
160%
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
Cumulative 4-Factor Alpha , Broad Sample (Global)

--- PAGE 45 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Tables and Figures – Page T14 
Figure 4 
QMJ: Flight to Quality 
This figure shows monthly excess returns and 4-factor alpha of Quality minus Junk (QMJ) factors. This figure 
includes all available common stocks on the CRSP/Xpressfeed  merged database for the markets listed in Table I. 
Panel A reports results from our Long Sample  of domestic stocks. The sample period runs from June 1956 to 
December 2012. Panel B reports results from our Broad Sample  of global stocks. The sample period r uns from 
June 1986 to December 2012. Alpha is the intercept in a time -series regression of monthly excess return. The 
explanatory variables are the monthly returns from the market portfolio (MKT) and size (SMB), book -to-market 
(HML), and momentum (UMD) fac tor-mimicking portfolios. Returns are in USD, do not include currency 
hedging, and excess returns are above the U.S. Treasury bill rate. Monthly excess returns and alphas on the y -axes 
and market excess returns on the x-axes. 
 
 
Panel A: Long Sample (U.S. , 1956 - 2012)
Panel B: Broad Sample (Global, 1986 - 2012)
-15.00%
-10.00%
-5.00%
0.00%
5.00%
10.00%
15.00%
-30% -25% -20% -15% -10% -5% 0% 5% 10% 15% 20%
QMJ - excess returns
Market Excess Return
-10.00%
-8.00%
-6.00%
-4.00%
-2.00%
0.00%
2.00%
4.00%
6.00%
8.00%
10.00%
-25% -20% -15% -10% -5% 0% 5% 10% 15%
QMJ - excess returns
Market Excess Return
-10.00%
-8.00%
-6.00%
-4.00%
-2.00%
0.00%
2.00%
4.00%
6.00%
8.00%
10.00%
12.00%
-30% -25% -20% -15% -10% -5% 0% 5% 10% 15% 20%
QMJ - 4-factor alpha
Market Excess Return
-8.00%
-6.00%
-4.00%
-2.00%
0.00%
2.00%
4.00%
6.00%
8.00%
-25% -20% -15% -10% -5% 0% 5% 10% 15%
QMJ - 4-factor alpha
Market Excess Return

--- PAGE 46 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Tables and Figures – Page T15 
Figure 5 
Cross Sectional Regressions Coefficient, the Price of Quality 
This figure reports coefficients from Fama -Macbeth regressions. The dependent variable is the z -score of a stock’s 
market to book ratio (MB) in month t. The explanatory variables are the quality scores in month t . We plot the time 
series of the cross sectional coefficients from table III, panel A, column (1) and (7).  
 
 
 
 
0.000
0.100
0.200
0.300
0.400
0.500
0.600
0.700
1956
1959
1962
1965
1968
1971
1974
1977
1980
1983
1986
1989
1992
1995
1998
2001
2004
2007
2010
Time Series of FMB Coefficients
Long Sample (U.S.) Broad Sample (Global)

--- PAGE 47 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Appendix – Page A1 
Appendix A 
 
A1: Variable Definitions 
In th is section we  report details of each variable used on our quality score.  Our 
variables’ definitions are based on Altman (1968), Ohlson (1980), Ang, Hodrick, Xing, and 
Zhang (2006), Danile and Titman (2006), Penman, Richardson, and Tuna (2007), Campbell, 
Hilscher, and Szilagyi (2008),  Chen, Novy -Marx and Zhang (2011), Novy -Marx (2012),  
Frazzini and Pedersen (2013) and Asness and Frazzini (2013). Variable names correspond to 
CRSP/XpressFeed data items and we omit the time subscript   for contemporaneous 
variables. Finally, unless specified, XpressFeed data items refer to annual  items and time 
subscripts refer to years. 
Profitability 
We compute  a profitability z -score by averaging z -scores of gross profits over assets 
(GPOA), return on equity (ROE), return on assets (ROA), cash flow over assets (CFOA), 
gross margin (GMAR) and low accruals (ACC): 
              (                                ) 
      is equal to r evenue minus costs of goods sold divided by total assets (     
    )    .     is net income divided by book -equity      .     is net income divided 
by total asset s      .      is n et income  plus depreciation minus c hanges in working 
capital and capital expenditures  divided by total assets : (              )    . 
     is revenue minus costs of goods sold divided by total sales: (         )      . 
    is depreciation minus changes in working capital  (      )    . Working capital 
   is defined as current assets minus current liabilities minus cash and short term 
instruments plus short term debt and income taxes payable                  
   . Book equity    is defined as s hareholders’ equity minus preferred stock. To obtain 
shareholders’ equity we use we use stockholders’ equity (   ) but if not available, we use 
the sum of common e quity (    ) and preferred s tocks (     ). If both     and     are 
unavailable, we proxy shareholders’ equity by total a ssets (   ) minus the sum of t otal 

--- PAGE 48 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Appendix – Page A2 
liability (   ) and minority i nterest (    ). To obtain book equity  (BE), we subtract from 
shareholders’ equity the preferred stock value (       ,       or      depending on 
availability). 
Growth 
We compute a growth z-score by averaging z -scores of five -year growth in gross 
profits over assets (         )       where              , five -year growth in 
return on equity (         )       , five -year growth in return over assets (    
     )       , five -year growth in cash flow over assets (         )       where 
                 , five-year growth in gross margin (         )        , 
and five-year growth in (low)  accruals (               )      where       
 (      ) : 
        (                                      ) 
Safety 
We compute a safety z-score by averaging z -scores of low beta (BAB),  low idiosyncratic 
volatility (IVOL), low leverage (LEV), low bankruptcy risk ( Ohlson’s O and Altman’s Z ) 
and low earnings volatility (EVOL): 
        (                           ) 
    is equal to m inus market beta –  . Betas are estima ted as in Frazzini and Pedersen 
(2013) based on the product of the rolling one -year daily standard deviation and the rolling 
five-year three -day correlations. For correlations, we use three -day returns to account for 
nonsynchronous trading and a longer hor izon because correlations are more stable  than 
volatilities.      is m inus a stock’s idiosyncratic volatility     . Idiosyncratic volatility is 
equal to the rolling one-year standard deviation of daily beta-adjusted excess return, skipping 
the most recent trading day.      is minus total debt ( the sum of long term debt, short term 
debt, minority interest and preferr ed stock ) over total assets   (              
    )   . We compute Ohlson’s O-Score as  

--- PAGE 49 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Appendix – Page A3 
    (                (            )             –                   
      –                                              
           )  
where          is adjusted total assets equal to total assets plus 10% of the difference 
between book equity and market equity       (     ).     is the consumer price 
index.      is equal to book value of debt (         ) divided by         .      is 
current assets minus current liabilities scaled by adjusted assets (       )          . 
     is current liabilities divided by current assets        .       is a dummy equal to 
1 if total liabiliti es exceed total assets  (     ) .      is net income over assets      . 
     is pre-tax income over total liabilities      .       is a dummy equal to one if net 
income is negative for the current and prior fiscal year  (   *         +   ).      is 
changes in net income  defined as  (         ) (|  |  |     |). Altman’s Z-Score is a 
weighted average of working capital, retained earnings, earnings before interest and taxes , 
market equity and sales, all over total assets:  
  (                                )    
     is the standard deviation of quarterly     over the past 60 quarters.  We require at 
least twelve  non missing quarter s. If quarterly data is unavailable  we use the standard 
deviation of annual     over the past 5 years and we require five non missing fiscal years1. 
Payout 
We compute a payout z-score by averaging z -scores of net equity issuance (    ), net debt 
issuance (    ) and total net payout over profits (    ): 
        (                 ) 
                                                 
 
1 Quarterly data is unavailable for some of our international sample. 

--- PAGE 50 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Appendix – Page A4 
     is minus  one-year percent change in split -adjusted number of shares 
     (                          )  where            is split-adjusted shares 
outstanding.      is minus one-year percent change in total debt      (             ) 
where      is the sum of long term debt, short term debt, minority interest and preferred 
stocks                   .      is equal the sum of total net payout (net 
income minus changes in book equi ty       )  over the past 5 years divided by total 
profits (         ) over the past 5 years. 
Book-to-Market 
Book-to-market ratios follow  Asness and Frazzini (2013). We require stocks to have a 
positive book equity and compute book-to-market as book equity divided by the most recent 
market equity      .  
 
  

--- PAGE 51 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Appendix – Page A5 
A2: Global Factor Returns 
In this section we report details of the construction of the market (MKT), size (SMB), 
book-to-market (HML), and momentum (UMD) portfolios used on the analysis. The data can 
be downloaded at http://www.econ.yale.edu/~af227/data_library.htm. The portfolio 
construction follows Fama and French ( 1992, 1993 and 1996) and Asness and Frazzini 
(2013). We form one set of portfolios in each country and compute global factor portfolios 
by weighting each country’s portfolio by the country’s total (lagged) market capitalization. 
The market factor MKT is the value -weighted return on all available stocks minus the one -
month Treasury bill rate. The size, value and momentum factors are constructed using six 
value-weighted portfolios formed on size  (market value of equity ME)  and book-to-market 
(book equity divided by the most rec ent market equity      ) and 1-year return ( return 
over the prior 12 month s, skipping the most recent month) . At the end of each calendar  
month, stocks are assigned to two size -sorted portfolios based on their market capitalization. 
For U.S. securities, the size breakpoint is the median NYSE market equity. For International 
securities the size breakpoint is the 80th percentile by country. We use conditional sorts, first 
sorting on size, then on the second variable . Portfolios are value -weighted, refreshed every 
calendar month, and rebalanced every calendar month to maintain value weights. The size 
factor SMB is the average return on the 3 small portfolios minus the average return on the 3 
big portfolios: 
          (                                          ) 
                   (                                    ) 
The value factors HML is the average return on the two value portfolios minus the average 
return on the two growth portfolios: 
          (                       )       (                         ) 
The momentum factor UMD is the average return on the two high return portfolios minus the 
average return on the two low return portfolios: 
           (                     )       (                   ) 

--- PAGE 52 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Appendix – Page A6 
Portfolio returns are in USD and do not include any currency hedging. E xcess returns are 
above the U.S. Treasury bill rate. 
 

--- PAGE 53 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Appendix – Page A7 
Table A1 
Persistence of Quality Measures 
This table shows average quality scores. Each calendar month, stocks in each country in are ranked in ascending 
order on the basis of their profitability, growth, safety and payout. The ranked stocks are assigned t o one of ten 
portfolios. U.S. sorts are based on NYSE breakpoints.  We form one set of portfolios in each country and 
compute global portfolios by weighting each country’s portfolio by the country’s total (lagged) market 
capitalization. Portfolios are value -weighted, refreshed every calendar month, and rebalanced every calendar 
month to maintain value weights.  This table reports the value -weighted average of quality measures across 
stocks in the portfolio at portfolio formation (t) up to the subsequent ten years (t + 120 months). We report the 
time series average of the value -weighted cross sectional means. Panel A reports results from our Long Sample 
of domestic stocks. The sample period runs from June 1956 to December 2012. Panel B reports results from our 
Broad Sample of global stocks. The sample period runs from June 1986 to December 2012. Standard errors are 
adjusted for heterskedasticity and autocorrelation with a lag length of five  years (Newey and West (1987)) and 
5% significance is indicated in bold.  
  
Panel A: Long Sample (U.S.) P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 P10 H-L H-L
1956 - 2012 (Low) (High) t-stat
Profit (t) -1.44 -0.80 -0.46 -0.20 0.03 0.25 0.49 0.76 1.11 1.76 3.20 63.62
Profit (t + 12M) -0.90 -0.49 -0.28 -0.05 0.10 0.27 0.44 0.66 0.99 1.51 2.41 41.39
Profit (t + 36M) -0.65 -0.40 -0.24 -0.03 0.11 0.23 0.37 0.56 0.82 1.40 2.05 31.26
Profit (t + 60M) -0.56 -0.36 -0.17 -0.03 0.13 0.22 0.32 0.50 0.76 1.34 1.90 24.06
Profit (t + 120M) -0.39 -0.22 -0.14 0.02 0.11 0.19 0.30 0.37 0.65 1.14 1.53 25.58
Growth (t) -1.48 -0.97 -0.66 -0.38 -0.12 0.13 0.39 0.68 1.03 1.67 3.15 101.83
Growth (t + 12M) -0.78 -0.60 -0.41 -0.21 -0.04 0.13 0.30 0.58 0.80 1.25 2.03 30.85
Growth (t + 36M) -0.43 -0.38 -0.28 -0.17 -0.07 0.02 0.18 0.36 0.51 0.93 1.36 21.52
Growth (t + 60M) 0.01 -0.10 -0.12 -0.09 -0.08 -0.03 0.02 0.15 0.25 0.52 0.51 4.15
Growth (t + 120M) -0.23 -0.25 -0.14 -0.10 -0.14 -0.12 -0.06 0.12 0.12 0.35 0.58 5.89
Safety (t) -1.49 -0.85 -0.48 -0.21 0.01 0.22 0.44 0.69 0.99 1.45 2.95 49.61
Safety (t + 12M) -1.11 -0.66 -0.34 -0.14 0.04 0.23 0.44 0.65 0.93 1.28 2.39 44.71
Safety (t + 36M) -0.74 -0.49 -0.22 -0.07 0.06 0.24 0.42 0.58 0.81 1.04 1.78 20.97
Safety (t + 60M) -0.56 -0.38 -0.11 -0.02 0.11 0.23 0.39 0.55 0.75 0.91 1.46 16.01
Safety (t + 120M) -0.28 -0.20 -0.03 0.03 0.12 0.25 0.35 0.45 0.65 0.71 0.98 9.67
Payout (t) -1.46 -0.82 -0.46 -0.17 0.07 0.30 0.54 0.80 1.11 1.57 3.03 70.25
Payout (t + 12M) -0.67 -0.39 -0.20 0.00 0.20 0.36 0.50 0.66 0.81 0.95 1.63 38.22
Payout (t + 36M) -0.38 -0.19 0.06 0.17 0.26 0.38 0.52 0.61 0.71 0.80 1.18 38.26
Payout (t + 60M) -0.15 0.02 0.19 0.25 0.32 0.41 0.49 0.59 0.68 0.71 0.86 27.71
Payout (t + 120M) 0.12 0.22 0.33 0.26 0.40 0.43 0.49 0.53 0.57 0.58 0.46 14.43
Panel B: Broad Sample (Global) P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 P10 H-L H-L
1986 - 2012 (Low) (High) t-stat
Profit (t) -1.48 -0.86 -0.50 -0.22 0.02 0.26 0.51 0.78 1.13 1.72 3.19 68.73
Profit (t + 12M) -0.91 -0.49 -0.24 -0.08 0.08 0.27 0.45 0.65 0.94 1.45 2.36 50.94
Profit (t + 36M) -0.63 -0.36 -0.18 -0.03 0.09 0.24 0.37 0.56 0.78 1.29 1.91 44.82
Profit (t + 60M) -0.46 -0.27 -0.10 0.02 0.13 0.25 0.36 0.50 0.69 1.19 1.65 34.78
Profit (t + 120M) -0.31 -0.12 -0.02 0.08 0.15 0.24 0.35 0.41 0.58 0.98 1.29 17.41
Growth (t) -1.50 -1.01 -0.69 -0.41 -0.15 0.11 0.37 0.66 1.03 1.68 3.18 57.38
Growth (t + 12M) -0.71 -0.53 -0.40 -0.21 -0.07 0.13 0.29 0.54 0.75 1.23 1.94 41.03
Growth (t + 36M) -0.29 -0.27 -0.24 -0.13 -0.06 0.07 0.15 0.30 0.48 0.80 1.08 23.00
Growth (t + 60M) 0.19 -0.04 -0.11 -0.08 -0.09 -0.04 0.03 0.11 0.19 0.38 0.18 4.35
Growth (t + 120M) -0.19 -0.21 -0.14 -0.11 -0.15 -0.14 -0.12 0.04 0.11 0.18 0.37 5.83
Safety (t) -1.58 -0.92 -0.54 -0.25 0.00 0.22 0.45 0.69 1.01 1.51 3.09 62.54
Safety (t + 12M) -1.06 -0.66 -0.38 -0.15 0.02 0.23 0.39 0.61 0.89 1.25 2.31 61.28
Safety (t + 36M) -0.63 -0.45 -0.26 -0.10 0.02 0.17 0.31 0.47 0.72 0.93 1.55 37.58
Safety (t + 60M) -0.45 -0.34 -0.17 -0.07 0.03 0.11 0.23 0.39 0.60 0.79 1.24 26.36
Safety (t + 120M) -0.21 -0.17 -0.09 -0.02 0.05 0.12 0.18 0.29 0.49 0.55 0.77 13.00
Payout (t) -1.51 -0.86 -0.48 -0.19 0.06 0.30 0.54 0.81 1.13 1.60 3.12 54.93
Payout (t + 12M) -0.54 -0.27 -0.12 0.07 0.24 0.34 0.52 0.64 0.76 0.90 1.43 54.37
Payout (t + 36M) -0.25 -0.05 0.11 0.21 0.31 0.39 0.50 0.58 0.65 0.73 0.98 32.25
Payout (t + 60M) -0.02 0.15 0.25 0.35 0.38 0.43 0.50 0.54 0.60 0.65 0.68 18.32
Payout (t + 120M) 0.16 0.26 0.36 0.31 0.42 0.45 0.49 0.50 0.51 0.59 0.43 7.42

--- PAGE 54 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Appendix – Page A8 
Table A2 
 Quality Minus Junk Components 
This table shows calendar -time portfolio returns and factor loadings. Quality minus Junk (QMJ) factors are constructed as 
the intersection of six value -weighted portfolios formed on size and quali ty. At the end of each calendar month, stocks are 
assigned to two size -sorted portfolios based on their market capitalization. For U.S. securities, the size breakpoint is the 
median NYSE market equity. For International securities the size breakpoint is th e 80th percentile by country. We use 
conditional sorts, first sorting on size, then on quality. Portfolios are value -weighted, refreshed every calendar month, and 
rebalanced every calendar month to maintain value weights. The QMJ factor return is the avera ge return on the two high 
quality portfolios minus the average return on the two low quality (junk) portfolios. Portfolios based on profitability, 
growth, safety and payout score are constructed in a similar manner. We form one set of portfolios in each co untry and 
compute global portfolios by weighting each country’s portfolio by the country’s total (lagged) market capitalization. This 
table includes all available common stocks on the CRSP/Xpressfeed merged database for the markets listed in Table I. 
Alpha is the intercept in a time-series regression of monthly excess return. The explanatory variables are the monthly returns 
from the market portfolio (MKT) and size (SMB), book -to-market (HML), and momentum (UMD) factor -mimicking 
portfolios. Panel A reports results from our Long Sample of domestic stocks. The sample period runs from June 1956 to 
December 2012. Panel B reports results from our Broad Sample of global stocks.  Panel C report results by country. The 
sample period runs from June 1986 to December 2 012. Returns are in USD, do not include currency hedging, and excess 
returns are above the U.S. Treasury bill rate. Returns and alphas are in monthly percent, t -statistics are shown below the 
coefficient estimates, and 5% statistical significance is indica ted in bold. Information ratio is equal to 4 -factor alpha 
(intercept) divided by the standard deviation of the estimated residuals in the time -series regression. Sharpe ratios and 
information ratios are annualized. 
 
 
 
  
QMJ QMJ
Small Big Small Big Small Big Small Big
Excess Returns 0.92 0.56 0.36 0.30 0.40 0.75 0.50 0.19 0.30 0.38
(4.70) (3.44) (1 .30) (1 .51 ) (4.38) (2.95) (2.1 0) (0.54) (0.96) (3.22)
CAPM-alpha 0.43 0.12 -0.31 -0.24 0.55 0.32 0.08 -0.38 -0.24 0.52
(4.85) (2.80) (-2.23) (-4.57) (7.27) (3.37) (1 .35) (-2.45) (-3.22) (5.75)
3-factor alpha 0.25 0.21 -0.59 -0.32 0.68 0.21 0.17 -0.52 -0.32 0.61
(5.79) (6.05) (-9.70) (-6.71 ) (1 1 .1 0) (3.55) (3.1 0) (-5.1 0) (-4.50) (7.68)
4-factor alpha 0.31 0.27 -0.40 -0.34 0.66 0.25 0.14 -0.23 -0.26 0.45
(6.91 ) (7.56) (-6.67) (-6.83) (1 0.20) (4.00) (2.51 ) (-2.33) (-3.43) (5.50)
MKT 0.90 0.93 1.19 1.14 -0.25 0.85 0.90 1.11 1.13 -0.24
(87.91 ) (1 1 5.82) (86.43) (99.31 ) (-1 7.02) (64.43) (75.37) (53.65) (71 .27) (-1 4.36)
SMB 0.70 -0.18 1.15 0.12 -0.38 0.61 -0.20 1.00 0.06 -0.33
(46.84) (-1 5.27) (57.1 7) (7.32) (-1 7.50) (22.42) (-8.22) (23.61 ) (1 .94) (-9.46)
HML 0.07 -0.18 -0.02 0.16 -0.12 0.10 -0.13 -0.13 0.12 -0.01
(4.23) (-1 3.21 ) (-0.87) (8.51 ) (-5.03) (3.67) (-5.26) (-2.89) (3.54) (-0.31 )
UMD -0.06 -0.06 -0.17 0.02 0.02 -0.04 0.02 -0.27 -0.06 0.15
(-4.1 5) (-5.28) (-9.1 4) (1 .49) (0.82) (-1 .88) (1 .05) (-7.98) (-2.1 8) (5.54)
Sharpe Ratio 0.63 0.46 0.17 0.20 0.58 0.57 0.40 0.10 0.19 0.62
Information Ratio (4-factor) 0.99 1.08 -0.96 -0.98 1.46 0.84 0.53 -0.49 -0.72 1.16
Adjusted R-square 0.95 0.96 0.96 0.95 0.57 0.95 0.95 0.93 0.95 0.60
         Panel A: Long Sample (U.S. , 1956 - 2012)        Panel B: Broad Sample (Global , 1986 - 2012)
           High  Quality       Low Quality            High  Quality       Low Quality

--- PAGE 55 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Appendix – Page A9 
Table A3 
Robustness Checks: QMJ by Time Period and by Size 
This table shows calendar -time portfolio returns and factor loadings. Quality minus Junk (QMJ) factors are constructed as 
the intersection of six value -weighted portfolios formed on size and quality. At the end of each calendar mont h, stocks are 
assigned to two size -sorted portfolios based on their market capitalization. For U.S. securities, the size breakpoint is the 
median NYSE market equity. For International securities the size breakpoint is the 80th percentile by country. We use  
conditional sorts, first sorting on size, then on quality. Portfolios are value -weighted, refreshed every calendar month, and 
rebalanced every calendar month to maintain value weights. The QMJ factor return is the average return on the two high 
quality po rtfolios minus the average return on the two low quality (junk) portfolios. Portfolios based on profitability, 
growth, safety and payout score are constructed in a similar manner. We form one set of portfolios in each country and 
compute global portfolios by weighting each country’s portfolio by the country’s total (lagged) market capitalization. This 
table includes all available common stocks on the CRSP/Xpressfeed merged database for the markets listed in Table I. 
Alpha is the intercept in a time-series regression of monthly excess return. The explanatory variables are the monthly returns 
from the market portfolio (MKT) and size (SMB), book -to-market (HML), and momentum (UMD) factor -mimicking 
portfolios. Panel A reports results from our Long Sample of domestic stocks. The sample period runs from June 1956 to 
December 2012. Panel B reports results from our Broad Sample of global stocks.  Panel C report results by country. The 
sample period runs from June 1986 to December 2012. Returns are in USD, do not incl ude currency hedging, and excess 
returns are above the U.S. Treasury bill rate. Returns and alphas are in monthly percent, t -statistics are shown below the 
coefficient estimates, and 5% statistical significance is indicated in bold. Information ratio is eq ual to 4 -factor alpha 
(intercept) divided by the standard deviation of the estimated residuals in the time -series regression. Sharpe ratios and 
information ratios are annualized. 
 
 
 
  
Panel A: QMJ by 
Sub-period
Universe Sample Period Firm 
Size
Excess 
return
T-stat 
Excess 
return
4-factor 
alpha
T-stat 
Alpha
Sharpe 
Ratio
Information 
Ratio              
(4-factor)
Number of 
months
Long Sample United States 1956 - 1985 All 0.34 3.35 0.72 9.70 0.62 2.01 354
Long Sample United States 1986 - 2005 All 0.50 2.82 0.67 5.22 0.63 1.28 240
Long Sample United States 2006 - 2012 All 0.37 1.13 0.55 3.26 0.43 1.27 84
Broad Sample Global 1986 - 2005 All 0.32 2.54 0.31 2.99 0.57 0.76 240
Broad Sample Global 2006 - 2012 All 0.54 1.97 0.69 7.62 0.74 3.07 84
Panel B : QMJ by 
Size Decile
Universe Sample Period Excess 
return
T-stat 
Excess 
return
4-factor 
alpha
T-stat 
Alpha
Sharpe 
Ratio
Information 
Ratio
Number of 
months
P1 (small) United States 1956 - 1985 0.86 5.41 0.90 6.87 0.72 0.98 678
P2 United States 1956 - 1985 0.51 3.83 0.61 5.82 0.51 0.83 678
P3 United States 1957 - 1985 0.43 3.26 0.60 5.48 0.43 0.79 678
P4 United States 1958 - 1985 0.52 4.41 0.70 6.93 0.59 0.99 678
P5 United States 1959 - 1985 0.39 3.49 0.60 6.00 0.46 0.86 678
P6 United States 1960 - 1985 0.22 2.14 0.40 4.21 0.28 0.60 678
P7 United States 1961 - 1985 0.33 3.22 0.52 5.37 0.43 0.77 678
P8 United States 1962 - 1985 0.36 3.66 0.59 6.03 0.49 0.86 678
P9 United States 1963 - 1985 0.25 2.87 0.48 5.34 0.38 0.77 678
P10 (Large) United States 1964 - 1985 0.33 3.26 0.66 7.22 0.43 1.04 678
P1 (small) Global 1986 - 2012 0.91 3.98 0.77 3.64 0.77 0.77 324
P2 Global 1987 - 2012 1.15 2.50 0.58 1.20 0.48 0.25 324
P3 Global 1988 - 2012 0.73 4.89 0.73 6.03 0.94 1.27 324
P4 Global 1989 - 2012 0.63 4.47 0.65 5.55 0.86 1.17 324
P5 Global 1990 - 2012 0.45 3.32 0.44 3.97 0.64 0.84 324
P6 Global 1991 - 2012 0.46 3.79 0.48 4.55 0.73 0.96 324
P7 Global 1992 - 2012 0.44 3.60 0.46 4.38 0.69 0.93 324
P8 Global 1993 - 2012 0.33 2.52 0.44 3.54 0.49 0.75 324
P9 Global 1994 - 2012 0.29 2.71 0.41 4.13 0.52 0.87 324
P10 (Large) Global 1995 - 2012 0.24 1.83 0.53 5.03 0.35 1.06 324

--- PAGE 56 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Appendix – Page A10 
Table A4 
Robustness Checks: QMJ among Small and Large by Country 
This table shows calendar -time portfolio returns and factor loadings. Quality minus Junk (QMJ) factors are constructed as 
the intersection of six value -weighted portfolios formed on size and quality. At the end of each calendar month, stocks are 
assigned to two  size-sorted portfolios based on their market capitalization. For U.S. securities, the size breakpoint is the 
median NYSE market equity. For International securities the size breakpoint is the 80th percentile by country. We use 
conditional sorts, first sor ting on size, then on quality. Portfolios are value -weighted, refreshed every calendar month, and 
rebalanced every calendar month to maintain value weights. The QMJ factor return is the average return on the two high 
quality portfolios minus the average re turn on the two low quality (junk) portfolios. Portfolios based on profitability, 
growth, safety and payout score are constructed in a similar manner. We form one set of portfolios in each country and 
compute global portfolios by weighting each country’s p ortfolio by the country’s total (lagged) market capitalization. This 
table includes all available common stocks on the CRSP/Xpressfeed merged database for the markets listed in Table I. 
Alpha is the intercept in a time-series regression of monthly excess return. The explanatory variables are the monthly returns 
from the market portfolio (MKT) and size (SMB), book -to-market (HML), and momentum (UMD) factor -mimicking 
portfolios. Panel A reports results from our Long Sample of domestic stocks. The sample period runs from June 1956 to 
December 2012. Panel B reports results from our Broad Sample of global stocks.  Panel C report results by country. The 
sample period runs from June 1986 to December 2012. Returns are in USD, do not include currency hedging, and excess 
returns are above the U.S. Treasury bill rate. Returns and alphas are in monthly percent, t -statistics are shown below the 
coefficient estimates, and 5% statistical significance is indicated in bold. Information rat io is equal to 4 -factor alpha 
(intercept) divided by the standard deviation of the estimated residuals in the time -series regression. Sharpe ratios and 
information ratios are annualized. 
 
 
 
 
  
Australia 0.19 0.73 0.37 1.35 0.17 0.37 0.49 1.66 0.73 2.81 0.40 0.77
Austria 0.16 0.34 0.28 0.63 0.08 0.16 0.27 0.78 0.49 1.62 0.19 0.41
Belgium -0.01 -0.02 0.05 0.13 -0.01 0.03 0.87 3.56 0.66 2.75 0.85 0.71
Canada 0.56 1.93 0.25 0.88 0.38 0.19 0.67 3.04 0.53 2.59 0.60 0.55
Switzerland 0.33 0.76 0.72 2.10 0.18 0.52 0.45 1.75 0.55 2.40 0.42 0.60
Germany -0.03 -0.11 0.46 1.74 -0.03 0.45 1.00 4.01 0.72 3.18 0.96 0.82
Denmark 0.16 0.31 -0.10 -0.23 0.08 -0.06 1.16 3.79 1.07 3.72 0.92 0.94
Spain -0.16 -0.46 -0.04 -0.12 -0.11 -0.03 0.47 1.42 0.43 1.47 0.34 0.36
Finland 0.45 0.69 0.48 0.95 0.16 0.24 0.61 2.05 0.70 2.37 0.49 0.59
France 0.42 1.25 0.59 2.19 0.30 0.56 0.48 2.06 0.46 2.25 0.49 0.58
United Kingdom -0.06 -0.26 0.26 1.33 -0.06 0.32 0.41 0.98 0.39 0.87 0.22 0.21
Greece 1.18 1.59 0.89 1.58 0.49 0.50 1.53 2.93 1.22 3.35 0.90 1.07
Hong Kong 0.72 1.90 1.20 4.17 0.45 1.04 0.50 1.08 0.84 2.24 0.26 0.56
Ireland 0.09 0.09 1.22 1.62 0.02 0.40 0.97 1.26 0.47 0.69 0.30 0.17
Israel 0.63 1.14 0.98 2.02 0.34 0.64 0.68 1.93 0.72 2.14 0.57 0.68
Italy 0.55 1.60 0.61 2.42 0.39 0.61 0.89 2.43 0.78 2.51 0.60 0.63
Japan 0.09 0.38 0.31 1.39 0.08 0.34 0.35 1.47 0.45 2.77 0.32 0.68
Netherlands -0.32 -0.80 0.07 0.20 -0.19 0.05 0.51 1.56 0.61 2.01 0.37 0.50
Norway 0.50 1.21 0.50 1.24 0.29 0.30 0.72 1.94 0.87 2.78 0.46 0.68
New Zealand 0.37 0.76 0.24 0.47 0.18 0.12 -0.23 -0.65 -0.35 -0.98 -0.16 -0.25
Portugal 0.62 1.09 0.69 1.37 0.31 0.40 1.10 1.85 1.09 1.95 0.52 0.57
Singapore -0.21 -0.47 0.22 0.69 -0.11 0.17 0.73 2.65 0.66 2.69 0.63 0.68
Sweden 0.10 0.26 0.45 1.51 0.06 0.34 0.71 2.42 0.55 2.03 0.52 0.46
United States 0.25 2.70 0.61 8.23 0.36 1.18 0.55 4.77 0.71 8.23 0.63 1.18
Global 0.20 1.60 0.41 4.36 0.31 0.92 0.56 3.98 0.49 4.60 0.77 0.97
Sharpe 
Ratio
Information 
Ratio         
(4-factor)
Panel A: Small Cap 
Information 
Ratio         
(4-factor)
Panel B: Large Cap
Sharpe 
Ratio
Excess 
return
T-stat 
Excess 
return
4-factor 
Alpha
T-stat 
Alpha
Excess 
return
T-stat 
Excess 
return
4-factor 
Alpha
T-stat 
Alpha

--- PAGE 57 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Appendix – Page A11 
Table A5 
QMJ, Alternative Definition, Averaging Portfolios 
This table shows calendar -time portfolio returns and factor loadings . Portfolios are constructed as the intersection of six 
value-weighted portfolios formed on size and a quality measure. At the end of each calendar month, stocks are assigned to 
two size-sorted portfolios based on their market capitalization. For U.S. securities, the size breakpoint is the median NYSE 
market equity. For International securities the size breakpoint is the 80th percentile by country. We use conditional sorts, 
first sorting on si ze, then on quality. Portfolios are value -weighted, refreshed every calendar month, and rebalanced every 
calendar month to maintain value weights. The factor return is the average return on the two high quality portfolios minus 
the average return on the tw o low quality  (junk) portfolios. We build one portfolio for each measure and average the 
portfolio return to obtain a QMJ factor       (                                  )  where        
 (                              )    ,                          (                    
                )    ,          (                )   and          (              ). 
We form one set of portfolios in each country and compute global portfolios by weighting each country’s portfolio by the 
country’s total (lagged) market capitalization. This table includes all available common stocks on the CRSP/Xpressfeed 
merged database for the markets listed in Table I. Alpha is the intercept in a time-series regression of monthly excess return. 
The explanatory variables are the monthly returns from the market portfolio (MKT) and size (SMB), book -to-market 
(HML), and momentum (UMD) factor -mimicking portfolios. Panel A reports results from our Long Sample  of domestic 
stocks. The sample period runs from June 1956 to December 2012. Panel B reports results from our Broad Sample of global 
stocks.  Panel C report results by country. The sample period runs from Ju ne 1986 to December 2012. Returns are in USD, 
do not include currency hedging, and excess returns are above the U.S. Treasury bill rate. Returns and alphas are in monthly 
percent, t -statistics are shown below the coefficient estimates, and 5% statistical s ignificance is indicated in bold. 
Information ratio is equal to 4 -factor alpha (intercept) divided by the standard deviation of the estimated residuals in the 
time-series regression. Sharpe ratios and information ratios are annualized. 
 
 
  
QMJ Profitability Safety Growth Payout QMJ Profitability Safety Growth Payout
Excess Returns 0.16 0.17 0.14 0.12 0.21 0.19 0.25 0.13 0.06 0.33
(3.96) (4.01 ) (1 .91 ) (2.44) (3.49) (3.49) (4.37) (1 .51 ) (0.99) (4.1 1 )
CAPM-alpha 0.22 0.21 0.27 0.10 0.31 0.25 0.31 0.24 0.06 0.41
(6.37) (5.01 ) (4.70) (2.00) (6.23) (5.69) (6.1 1 ) (3.45) (0.99) (6.35)
3-factor alpha 0.28 0.28 0.36 0.19 0.29 0.30 0.38 0.32 0.15 0.37
(1 0.32) (8.42) (8.00) (4.69) (6.97) (8.37) (9.20) (5.71 ) (3.08) (6.28)
4-factor alpha 0.27 0.33 0.31 0.30 0.15 0.26 0.37 0.22 0.26 0.19
(9.46) (9.1 9) (6.63) (7.55) (3.63) (6.77) (8.41 ) (3.85) (5.1 9) (3.30)
MKT -0.10 -0.06 -0.22 0.02 -0.14 -0.11 -0.10 -0.18 -0.01 -0.14
(-1 4.98) (-7.90) (-1 9.87) (2.1 9) (-1 4.39) (-1 3.31 ) (-1 0.69) (-1 4.88) (-0.75) (-1 1 .94)
SMB -0.17 -0.15 -0.30 -0.05 -0.20 -0.20 -0.19 -0.30 -0.13 -0.16
(-1 8.1 3) (-1 2.44) (-1 8.81 ) (-4.07) (-1 4.43) (-1 1 .89) (-9.96) (-1 1 .86) (-6.26) (-6.82)
HML -0.06 -0.16 -0.06 -0.30 0.26 -0.04 -0.12 -0.06 -0.28 0.28
(-5.84) (-1 1 .96) (-3.1 9) (-1 9.61 ) (1 6.50) (-2.63) (-6.26) (-2.1 8) (-1 2.74) (1 1 .32)
UMD 0.01 -0.04 0.04 -0.11 0.14 0.04 0.01 0.09 -0.10 0.17
(0.83) (-3.56) (2.91 ) (-8.70) (1 0.41 ) (3.20) (0.44) (4.54) (-6.01 ) (9.05)
Sharpe Ratio 0.53 0.53 0.25 0.32 0.46 0.67 0.84 0.29 0.19 0.79
Information Ratio 1.36 1.32 0.95 1.08 0.52 1.43 1.78 0.81 1.10 0.70
Adjusted R2 0.56 0.40 0.63 0.42 0.60 0.59 0.52 0.64 0.39 0.58
Panel A: Long Sample (U.S. , 1956 - 2012) Panel B: Broad Sample (Global , 1986 - 2012)

--- PAGE 58 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Appendix – Page A12 
Table A6 
Time Variation of the Price of Quality: High Price of Quality Predicts Low QMJ Returns. Using raw Book-to-Market 
This table shows time series regression of future factor returns on lagged cross sectional regression coefficients. The left hand side is the future cumulative excess return (or 
cumulative 4-factor alphas) of the QMJ factor (or profitability, growth, safet y and payout factor). Alpha is the intercept in a time -series regression of monthly excess return. The 
explanatory variables are the monthly returns from the market portfolio (MKT) and size (SMB), book -to-market (HML), and momentum (UMD) factor-mimicking portfolios. The 
right hand side variables are the lagged cross sectional regression coefficient of log of market to book on quality  z-score. The prior return is defined as the portfolio –weighted 
average of the past 1 -year returns of the stocks in the portfolio. Panel A reports results from our Long Sample of domestic stocks. The sample period runs from June  1956 to 
December 2012. Panel B reports  results from our Broad Sample of global stocks. The sample period runs from June 1986 to December 2012. We report the coefficient on the 
lagged cross sectional regression slope. T -statistics are shown below the coefficient estimates, and 5% statistical significance is indicated in bold.  Standard errors are adjusted for 
heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation (Newey and West (1987)) with lag length equal to the forecasting  horizon. “Mean Adj R2” is the average adjusted r -squared across all the 
regression above. The intercept and prior returns are included in all regressions but not reported.  
 
 
 
  
Left-hand side
Raw Alpha Raw Alpha Raw Alpha Raw Alpha Raw Alpha Raw Alpha Raw Alpha Raw Alpha
QMJ -0.04 -0.01 -0.42 -0.24 -1.19 -0.79 -1.83 -2.50 -0.02 0.01 -0.27 0.12 -0.46 0.37 -0.69 -2.09
(-2.63) (-1 .68) (-3.22) (-2.1 9) (-4.05) (-2.35) (-3.1 1 ) (-4.79) (-0.67) (1 .34) (-1 .79) (1 .24) (-1 .58) (1 .47) (-2.23) (-5.30)
Profitability -0.03 -0.01 -0.37 -0.22 -1.28 -0.81 -1.65 -2.35 0.01 0.03 -0.10 0.20 -0.42 0.36 -1.20 -2.59
(-2.58) (-1 .63) (-3.64) (-2.36) (-6.22) (-3.07) (-3.55) (-6.81 ) (0.39) (2.53) (-0.63) (2.06) (-0.85) (1 .1 2) (-2.41 ) (-5.22)
Growth -0.03 0.00 -0.44 -0.12 -1.32 -0.16 0.15 -1.67 -0.03 0.01 -0.40 -0.07 -1.26 -0.66 -1.65 -1.67
(-2.1 4) (-0.1 4) (-3.1 3) (-0.99) (-3.1 0) (-0.37) (0.20) (-2.1 9) (-1 .28) (0.48) (-2.48) (-0.48) (-2.20) (-1 .35) (-3.40) (-4.89)
Safety -0.04 0.00 -0.48 -0.17 -1.42 -0.81 -1.64 -2.38 -0.04 0.00 -0.35 0.05 -0.68 0.24 0.21 -0.84
(-2.37) (-0.50) (-3.44) (-1 .69) (-4.82) (-1 .57) (-1 .36) (-3.33) (-1 .33) (0.45) (-2.43) (0.95) (-3.26) (1 .97) (0.66) (-3.42)
Payout -0.05 -0.02 -0.49 -0.13 -0.95 -0.46 -1.35 -2.06 -0.06 -0.01 -0.48 0.01 -0.39 0.11 -0.66 -1.23
(-2.31 ) (-1 .61 ) (-2.85) (-0.95) (-2.07) (-1 .87) (-2.66) (-2.80) (-2.1 1 ) (-0.83) (-1 .89) (0.1 0) (-0.68) (0.26) (-1 .53) (-4.08)
Mean Adj R2 0.01 0.00 0.12 0.07 0.28 0.16 0.19 0.33 0.01 0.00 0.09 0.03 0.26 0.11 0.21 0.37
Return (t, t+36) Return (t, t+60)Return (t) Return (t, t+12) Return (t, t+36) Return (t, t+60) Return (t) Return (t, t+12)
Panel A: Long Sample (U.S. , 1956 - 2012) Panel B: Broad Sample (Global, 1986 - 2012)

--- PAGE 59 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Appendix – Page A13 
Figure A1 
QMJ: 4-Factor Adjusted Information Ratios by Size 
This figure shows 4-factor adjusted information ratios of  Quality minus Junk (QMJ) factors. This figure includes all 
available common stocks on the CRSP/Xpressfeed merged database for the markets listed in Table I. For U.S. securities, the 
size breakpoint is the median NYSE market equity. For International securities the size breakpoint is the 80th percentile by 
country. Alpha is the intercept in a time -series regression of  monthly excess return. The explanatory variables are the 
monthly returns from the market portfolio (MKT) and size (SMB), book -to-market (HML), and momentum (UMD) factor -
mimicking portfolios. Returns are in USD, do not include currency hedging, and excess returns are above the U.S. Treasury 
bill rate. Information ratios are equal to alpha divided by the standard deviation of the estimated residuals  in the time-series 
regression. Information ratios are annualized. 
 
 
  
-0.40
-0.20
0.00
0.20
0.40
0.60
0.80
1.00
1.20
1.40
Australia
Austria
Belgium
Canada
Switzerland
Germany
Denmark
Spain
Finland
France
United Kingdom
Greece
Hong Kong
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Netherlands
Norway
New Zealand
Portugal
Singapore
Sweden
United States
Global
Panel A: Small Cap Panel B: Large Cap

--- PAGE 60 ---

Quality Minus Junk – Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen – Appendix – Page A14 
Figure A2 
Cross Sectional Regressions Coefficient, the Price of Quality 
This figure reports coefficients from Fama -Macbeth regressions. The dependent variable is the z -score of a 
stock’s market to book ratio (MB) in month t. The explanatory variables are the quality scores in month t . We 
plot the time series of the cross sectional coefficients from table III, panel A, column (1) and (7) .  
 
 
 
 
-0.400
-0.200
0.000
0.200
0.400
0.600
0.800
1956
1959
1962
1965
1968
1971
1974
1977
1980
1983
1986
1989
1992
1995
1998
2001
2004
2007
2010
Time Series of FMB Coefficients - Long Sample (U.S.)
Profitability Growth Safety Payout
-0.300
-0.200
-0.100
0.000
0.100
0.200
0.300
0.400
0.500
1985
1987
1989
1991
1993
1995
1997
1999
2001
2003
2005
2007
2009
2011
Time Series of FMB Coefficients - Broad Sample (Global)
Profitability Growth Safety Payout