

--- PAGE 1 ---

№ 2Volume 5
www.practicalapplications.com
The V oices of Influence  |  iijournals.com
CLIFFORD ASNESS, ANDREA FRAZZINI,  
RONEN ISRAEL, and TOBIAS MOSKOWITZ  
Fact, Fiction, and 
V alue Investing
№ 4Volume 3


--- PAGE 2 ---

1 //   Practical Applications
Practical Applications of
Fact, Fiction,  
and V alue Investing
Authors: Clifford Asness, Andrea Frazzini, Ronen Israel and Tobias Moskowitz
Source: The Journal of Portfolio Management,  Vol. 42, No. 1.
Report Written By:  Aimee Picchi
Keywords: Value Investing, Momentum Investing, AQR Capital Management 
Overview
Value investing has a long history in the financial markets, with Benjamin Graham  
and David Dodd advocating for the strategy in their 1934 classic book Security 
Analysis. It is practiced today by many well-known practitioners, including 
Berkshire Hathaway  CEO Warren Buffett. Yet, the strategy is subject to a 
number of faulty beliefs from both adherents and opponents. In an interview with 
Institutional Investor Journals , Andrea Frazzini and Ronen Israel provide 
insights into what many get wrong—and right—about value strategies. 
Their award-winning research appeared in The Journal of Portfolio Management . 
It was co-written with AQR Capital Management  colleagues Cliff Asness and 
Tobias Moskowitz (who is also a professor at the University of Chicago Booth 
School of Business ). Their article— Fact, Fiction, and Value Investing —was named 
Outstanding Article in the 17th Annual Bernstein Fabozzi/Jacobs Levy Awards . 
Practical Applications
• Look beyond Buffett. Many believe value investing only works best in a 
concentrated stock-picking style, similar to Buffett’s approach. In fact, a 
systematic, diversified value strategy also produces strong long-term results.
• Think beyond equities. Other asset classes, even currencies and commodities, 
demonstrate reliable value premiums. 
• Act beyond single strategies. A system that incorporates value and momentum can 
boost returns.
Practical Applications Report
Value investing remains subject to a number of misperceptions, despite dating back 
to Victorian England and being popularized by Graham and Dodd in the early 20th 
century. This disconnect between reality and perception became clear to principals at 
AQR while they were working on a previous article that sought to dispel myths about 
momentum investing. That article, Fact, Fiction, and Momentum Investing , was 
published in JPM in 2014.
Clifford S. Asness
cliff.asness@aqr.com
Cliff is a Founder, Managing Principal and 
Chief Investment Officer at AQR Capital 
Management. He is an active researcher 
and has authored articles on a variety of 
financial topics for many publications, 
including The Journal of Portfolio 
Management, Financial Analysts 
Journal and Journal of Finance. 
He has received five Bernstein Fabozzi/
Jacobs Levy Awards from The Journal 
of Portfolio Management, in 2002, 2004, 
2005, 2014 and 2015. The Financial 
Analysts Journal has twice awarded him 
the Graham and Dodd Award for the 
year’s best paper, as well as a Graham 
and Dodd Excellence Award, the award 
for the best perspectives piece, and 
the Graham and Dodd Readers’ Choice 
Award. In 2006, CFA Institute presented 
Cliff with the James R. Vertin Award, 
which is periodically given to individuals 
who have produced a body of research 
notable for its relevance and enduring 
value to investment professionals. 
Prior to co-founding AQR Capital 
Management, he was a managing director 
and director of quantitative research 
for the Asset Management Division of 
Goldman, Sachs & Co. He is on the 
editorial board of The Journal of Portfolio 
Management, the governing board of 
the Courant Institute of Mathematical 
Bernstein Fabozzi / Jacobs Levy Awards Winner

--- PAGE 3 ---

2 //   Practical Applications
“We realized that something like value, which has perhaps been talked about and traded 
on for a longer period time, had an equal number of misunderstandings, and we felt it 
was the natural thing to try to attack the problem in a similar way,” Israel reports. 
The AQR team identified nine myths and unrealized truths about value investing 
by assessing academic research, evaluating perspectives from the trenches and 
incorporating their firm’s own empirical analysis. The authors point out that even 
value supporters can spread confusion about the strategy.
You can read about the myths—why they persist and how they are debunked—in the 
full article. Here are some of them: 
• A value portfolio’s Sharpe ratio almost doubles when combined with stocks chosen 
for momentum and profitability. 
• An HML-style portfolio ( Fama and French’s high minus low ) that uses a 
composite of four value measures provides similar average returns as those built 
with just a single value measure, but with 20% less volatility. 
• During the past 88 years, the market-adjusted return to value within large-
capitalization stocks has only been 1.7% annually, or one-third of the return for 
small-cap value stocks.
THE BUFFETT PROBLEM
Warren Buffett became a legend through his success at picking and holding 
individual cheap stocks and thereby delivering strong, long-term results. Conversely, 
Buffett has dismissed diversification as “protection against ignorance,” Frazzini, 
Israel and their co-authors note in the article. They repeat another Buffett quote that 
elaborates: “It makes little sense if you know what you are doing.” 
That feeds into a widespread belief that a successful value investor must eschew 
diversification in favor of a concentrated number of deeply researched stocks, the 
authors point out. But in this case, Buffett is promoting a “fiction” about value that 
won’t necessarily benefit investors as a whole, they argue. 
“You are always going to find people who did well like Buffett, but that doesn’t 
mean you can’t capture value in a systematic way,” Israel says. “A diversified value 
approach is very valuable in an investor’s portfolio.”
Strong, long-term evidence demonstrates that a systematic value approach to 
diversified assets can provide solid returns over a long period. Buffett’s approach is 
just one aspect of value investing, and limiting oneself to picking idiosyncratic value 
stocks can add further risks, as well as higher fees, Frazzini and Israel point out.
THE FLIP SIDE TO BUFFETT
Representing the flip side to Buffett is a group of pure value investors, who claim 
they aren’t using a value strategy. This is an example of an unrealized truth. Their 
portfolios are labeled with terms such as “fundamental indexing” and “smart beta.” 
But the authors argue that these approaches that weight by fundamentals—such as 
book value, dividends and other measures—instead of the market-cap weighting used 
in traditional indexing are simply implementing a value tilt.
Key Definitions
Momentum investing
An investment strategy that buys or 
overweights stocks with high recent 
returns and underweights or shorts stocks 
with low recent returns.
Value investing 
An investment strategy that buys or 
overweights stocks with low prices relative 
to their fundamentals and underweights or 
shorts stocks with high prices relative to 
their fundamentals.
Finance at New York University, the 
board of directors of the Q-Group and 
the board of the International Rescue 
Committee. Cliff holds a BS in economics 
from the Wharton School and a BS in 
engineering from the Moore School of 
Electrical Engineering at the University 
of Pennsylvania, graduating summa cum 
laude in both. He received an MBA with 
high honors and a PhD in finance from 
the University of Chicago, where he was 
Eugene Fama’s student and teaching 
assistant for two years (so he still feels 
guilty when trying to beat the market).
     
      
  
The Authors
✓ Assessed academic 
research.
✓ Evaluated perspectives 
from the trenches.
✓ Incorporated AQR’s 
own empirical analysis.

--- PAGE 4 ---

3 //   Practical Applications
Back-testing a fundamental index, using data from large-cap stocks from 1962 
through early 2014, verified this. Fundamental indexing “is capturing the value 
premium,” Israel notes. 
LOOK BEYOND EQUITIES
Another widely held myth about value investing is that it’s only applicable to 
equities, which may be tied to the fact that most of the academic literature has 
focused on stocks, the authors note. But that means that investors may be missing out 
on applying value to other asset classes.
Frazzini recommends investors revisit a 2013 research paper by Asness, Moskowitz 
and another AQR colleague (and professor at New York University’s Stern School 
of Business), Lasse Heje Pedersen , called Value and Momentum Everywhere . It 
documents significant value return premia in assets including bonds, currencies and 
commodities from 1972 through 2011.
“Value isn’t just a stock-oriented phenomenon,” Israel says. “That’s a power in 
understanding value. The fact that it works in so many contexts gives us confidence.”
A COMPOSITE OF VALUE MEASURES
Aside from applying value principles across asset classes, investors should take 
an “intuitive” approach to measuring value, the authors recommend. That is, use a 
composite of variables, Frazzini and Israel explain. 
Academia predominantly measures value through the book-to-market ratio, but 
using multiple measures of value—such as earnings-to-price and cash-flow-to-price 
ratios—helps produce more stable value portfolios with higher Sharpe ratios and 
stronger returns, they report. 
RETHINKING LARGE-CAP VALUE 
Bucking earlier academic research that relied on data from 1963 to the early 1980s, 
the authors find that there’s no strong value premium among large-cap stocks when 
considering a longer, 88-year period. Still, there’s value in the segment. Combining 
large-cap value with large-cap momentum boosts the Sharpe ratio to close to that 
seen with the small-cap stocks using a similar mix of value and momentum, Frazzini 
and Israel report.
“From an investor perspective, putting these things together and taking advantage 
of multiple factors like momentum and profitability, we think, is the most important 
thing,” Israel says.
Frazzini adds, “An important point we make is that value should not be considered as 
a stand-alone strategy.”
“ From an investor 
perspective, putting 
these things together 
and taking advantage 
of multiple factors 
like momentum and 
profitability, we think, 
is the most important 
thing. ”
—Ronen Israel
“ An important 
point we make is that 
value should not be 
considered as a stand-
alone strategy. ”
—Andrea Frazzini

--- PAGE 5 ---

4 //   Practical Applications
HELICOPTERS, ROCK N’ ROLL, FAMI LY & TENNIS
Frazzini spends little time away from the world of fin ance, but he’s learning to fly  
helicopters. He is a guitarist in a band that plays classic rock, such as Rolling Sto nes 
songs. 
Israel jokes he has limitations that Frazzini doesn’t.  “First, I’m not Italian , and I have 
three kids!” He spends his time outside of AQR with his family, and he plays tennis. 
To order reprints of this report, p lease contact Dew ey Palmieri 
at dpalmieri@iijournals.com or 212-224-3675
The views and opinions expressed are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views 
of AQR Capital Management, its affiliates, or its employees; do not constitute an offer, 
solicitation of an offer, or any advice or recommendation, to purchase any securities or other 
financial instruments, and may not be construed as such. Diversification does not eliminate the 
risk of experiencing investment losses. 
Hypothetical performance results (e.g., quantitative backtests) have many inherent limitations, 
some of which, but not all, are described herein.  No representation is being made that any fund or 
account will or is likely to achieve profits or losses similar to those shown herein.  In fact, there 
are frequently sharp differences between hypothetical performance results and the actual results 
subsequently realized by any particular trading program.  One of the limitations of hypothetical 
performance results is that they are generally prepared with the benefit of hindsight.  In addition, 
hypothetical trading does not involve financial risk, and no hypothetical trading record can 
completely account for the impact of financial risk in actual trading.  For example, the ability to 
withstand losses or adhere to a particular trading program in spite of trading losses are material 
points which can adversely affect actual trading results.  The hypothetical performance results 
contained herein represent the application of the quantitative models as currently in effect on the 
date first written above and there can be no assurance that the models will remain the same in the 
future or that an application of the current models in the future will produce similar results 
because the relevant market and economic conditions that prevailed during the hypothetical 
performance period will not necessarily recur.  There are numerous other factors related to the 
markets in general or to the implementation of any specific trading program which cannot be fully 
accounted for in the preparation of hypothetical performance results, all of which can adversely 
affect actual trading results. Discounting factors may be applied to reduce suspected anomalies.  
This backtest’s return, for this period, may vary depending on the date it is run. 

--- PAGE 6 ---

5 //   Practical Applications
Ronen Israel
ronen.israel@aqr.com
Ronen is a Principal at AQR Capital 
Management. His primary focus is on 
portfolio management and research. He 
was instrumental in helping to build AQR’s 
Global Stock Selection group and its initial 
algorithmic trading capabilities, and he 
now runs the Global Alternative Premia 
group, which employs various investing 
styles across asset classes. 
He received an Outstanding Article Award 
as part of the 17th Annual Bernstein 
Fabozzi/Jacobs Levy Awards from The 
Journal of Portfolio Management in 
2015 and the Special Distinction Award as 
part of the Harry M. Markowitz Prize for 
the best paper published in the Journal 
of Investment Management in 2015. 
He is on the executive board of the 
University of Pennsylvania’s Jerome 
Fisher Program in Management and 
Technology and is an adjunct professor 
of finance at New York University. Ronen 
has been a guest speaker at Harvard, 
Columbia, the University of Pennsylvania 
and the University of Chicago and is a 
frequent conference speaker. 
Prior to joining AQR, he was a senior 
analyst at Quantitative Financial 
Strategies. He holds a BS in economics 
from the Wharton School at the 
University of Pennsylvania, a BAS in 
biomedical science from the University 
of Pennsylvania’s School of Engineering 
and Applied Science and an MA in 
mathematics, specializing in mathematical 
finance, from Columbia University.
Tobias J. Moskowitz
tobias.moskowitz@chicagobooth.edu
Toby is a Principal at AQR Capital 
Management. He contributes to research on 
asset pricing and investment issues related 
to domestic and international strategies 
for AQR’s Global Alternative Premia 
team. He holds the Fama Family Chaired 
Professorship in Finance at the University 
of Chicago’s Booth School of Business 
and is a Research Associate at the National 
Bureau of Economic Research. 
He has won the Amundi Smith Breeden 
Award for the best paper published in the 
Journal of Finance, the Brattle Group 
Prize for the best corporate finance 
paper published in the Journal of Finance, 
the BGI Michael Brennan Award for 
the best paper published in the Review 
of Financial Studies, twice, the 2015 
Bernstein Fabozzi/Jacobs Levy Awards 
for Outstanding Article in The Journal of 
Portfolio Management. In 2007, he was 
awarded the Fischer Black Prize by the 
American Finance Association, which 
recognizes the best financial economist 
under the age of 40, and the Ewing Marion 
Kauffman Prize Medal for Distinguished 
Research in Entrepreneurship in 2012 by 
the Kauffman Foundation, which recognizes 
the largest contribution to entrepreneurial 
research under the age of 40. 
His work has been cited in numerous print 
media, television appearances and in a 
2005 speech by former Federal Reserve 
Chairman Alan Greenspan. Toby earned 
a BS in industrial management/industrial 
engineering with honors and an MS in 
finance from Purdue University, as well 
as a PhD in finance from the University of 
California at Los Angeles.
Andrea Frazzini
andrea.frazzini@aqr.com
Andrea is a Principal on AQR Capital 
Management’s Global Stock Selection 
team, focusing on research and portfolio 
management of the firm’s long/short and 
long-only equity strategies. 
He is also an Adjunct Professor of Finance 
at New York University’s Stern School 
of Business. He has published in top 
academic journals and won several 
awards for his research, including the 
Smith Breeden Award, the Fama-
DFA Prize, the BGI best paper award, 
several Bernstein Fabozzi/Jacobs Levy 
Awards, and the PanAgora Crowell 
Memorial Prize. Prior to joining AQR, 
Andrea was an associate professor of 
finance at the University of Chicago’s 
Graduate School of Business and a 
research associate at the National Bureau 
of Economic Research. 
He also served as a consultant for 
DKR Capital Partners and J.P . Morgan 
Securities and on the board of directors of 
the Center for Research in Security Prices 
at the University of Chicago. He earned 
a BS in economics from the University of 
Roma Tre, an MS in economics from the 
London School of Economics and a PhD 
in economics from Yale University.